
SAM KOGAN: Let me start today's lecture from the real-life example of how
a company from the cement industry found a great commercial success in the food
industry.
I hope you all understand that I'm not talking
about putting cement in some products.
But I am talking about cement technology helping all of us
to enjoy low-fat peanut butter.
How did it happen?
So a cement company has developed a great technology
for mixing cement products.
And the main technical achievement that they had
was an ability to quickly and economically mix
products of different viscosity.
So they had a great success in the industry,
but they were looking for more.
And they found out that in peanut butter industry,
on a peanut butter production, people are facing with the same problem.
When you remove fat from the peanut butter
product that has peanut and butter and many other ingredients,
you suddenly are dealing with ingredients
without any grease in between.
So mixing of these ingredients with the different, and very often high
viscosity, is becoming a problem.
So the technology from the cement industry
suddenly found success in the food industry.
Why were they able to do it?
They were able to do that because they were able to clearly articulate
what their technology did.
They were able to find out where what they did,
what functions they performed is needed.
And they were able to successfully adapt economically--
economically adapt their technology to the food production.
This example clearly shows us that what are the important components
of success for commercialization--
technical achievements, knowing what market
needs, an ability to take a function from one area to another.
This is what commercialization is about.
Commercialization is the process of converting technological advancement
into economical value.
And there are the three main components of successful commercialization.
First, it's all about innovation.
Innovation is the fuel of successful commercialization.
And yet, successful innovation depends on identifying values
that will define purchasing decision.
We call it main parameters of value.
And finally, it's all about functions.
Function is the goal.
Technology is a mean to that.
We're buying products and technologies because they perform functions
that we need.
Water filter stops impurities.
Car moves us from A to B.
So today, we will be talking about innovation, main parameters of value,
and functions.
They are three critical parts of successful commercialization.
