
SAM KOGAN: Let's talk about innovation.
Different people define innovation differently.
But let us be non-orthodox and first define what innovation is not.
Innovation is not an invention.
It's critical.
Innovation is not an invention.
Invention, it's all about technical or scientific discovery.
When the patent office looks in the patent application,
they look at two parameters only--
not obviousness and novelty.
Therefore, they grant probably 75% of patents
that they grant represent nothing.
They will never see a commercial value, and some of them are just stupid.
I could name you a few--
I don't know, umbrella for your shoes, for example.
And there are patents that even the best of inventors
have developed that never became an innovation.
Edison, for example, developed electrical punching pen
that will punch hole in the paper.
It never seen the light of the day.
There are great inventions that have not been successful.
And Segway-- there was a lot of hype about Segways.
But besides few cops in the mall or in the airport,
we have not seen successful application of this technology.
Some great inventions take time to become a commercial success.
For example, fuel cells--
this technology was invented at the beginning of last century.
And it took 60, 70 years before this technology was commercialized.
And the same time, we know about great inventions
that became great innovations.
Crest White Strip-- this was a great invention
that really go well beyond whitening toothpaste that existed back then.
iPhone is a great invention that actually
combined a lot of known innovation from the different areas.
The single banana that you could buy in the airport or at Starbucks
is a great example of how cutting technology
of a single banana from the bunch became a great innovation.
So when we talked about commercialization,
we have to clearly understand that we need
to look at technological advancement.
But we must move technological advancement toward commercial success
through identifying and advancing the value on the marketplace.
