
SAM KOGAN: Let's talk about value drivers
that really define how products become successful commercial products
and how they fail.

As we talked before, commercialization is a process
of converting technological advancement, or scientific advancement,
into commercial success through identifying the value drivers that
will define purchasing decision.
We call these value drivers main parameters of value.
This is why we buy products or use technologies.
I go and buy a car today, not because it could give me an ability
to drive 140 miles per hour, but because it allows
me to be connected while I'm driving.
So connectivity of the car is becoming a value driver
that affects my purchasing decision.
Crest White Strip developers were able to identify the main parameters
of value: convenience.
Because before that, you could go to a dentist's office
and spend one hour with a cup in your mouth,
and kind of sitting in a dentist chair, and the time when it was available.
And after that your teeth will be whitened.
So it was not very convenient.
So they identify the new main parameters value.
Not bleaching, not whitening, but convenience.
And they advance their technology toward that.
And, by the way, they took the technology from the nicotine patch
and adapted it to their oral care products.
Segway, by the way, did not address main parameters value
for all of us, which is safety and cost.
And, therefore, it's not a commercial success.
Google Glass has a big question mark over this product.
It's a great invention that has not became an innovation yet
because the developer of this product, the Google,
they have not addressed our main parameters value.
They don't even know what to offer to us.
Will it become commercial success or not?
We don't know.
But until they identify and address main parameters of value,
they will not be able to get our money.
So in a definition, main parameters of value, every word is operative.
It's main.
We cannot afford to improve everything that is possible in a product.
So we need to focus.
And the purchasing decision, what affects purchasing decision,
is what drives innovation.
I'll give you an example.
A medical device company was developing a new knife for surgeons.
So they all knew about what the market wanted--
ergonomics, sharpness, and so on and so forth.
But they were able to identify new main parameters of value.
And it was ability of a knife to differentiate
between the right and the wrong organ that the surgeon will cut.
Today, or before they develop this knife,
surgeon was performing this function.
And they asked the knife to do that.
This is a new value driver that they correctly identify and their product
became a commercial success.
Parameter is a critical word also because it
allows us to develop something that we could measure.
We could measure the success and advancement of a product
rather than just saying it's a good or bad product.
Crest White Strip was a product that improved
the convenience of whitening by reducing time that you
need to spend in doctor's office.
It was a parameter that you could measure.
And finally, it's all about value.
Value, how do we define value?
Larry Miles defined this in the late '40s
when they developed value engineering for General Electric.
It's what you get or what it costs you.
Larry Miles was only thinking about dollars in terms of cost.
But there are other factors that we should take into account.
It could be real estate.
It could be weight.
It could be environmental impact.
But overall, it's what I get or what it costs me.
So we need to focus innovation along the main parameters of value,
which is attributes of product or technologies
that define purchasing decisions.
