
SAM KOGAN: Let's talk about value.
As I said, Larry Miles developed value engineering
while working in the purchasing department of General Electric.
So he defined value as usefulness of the cost.
We define value as functionality of the cost.
What is the function?
Function is why we'll buy products and technologies.
Function is interaction between different components of the system.
Why is functional analysis so important?
There are three main reasons for importance of functional analysis.
Number one, it breaks psychological inertia.
Thinking about functions rather than components
breaks psychological inertia.
I'll give you an example that I love very much.
In the late '60s, the Soviet Union was sending stations
on the dark side of the moon.
And as you can imagine, on the dark side of the moon,
you need to have some light.
Because when the station lands, you want to take pictures,
grab samples, and so on.
And every time when they tested the station,
the light bulb that they had outside the station would break.
They tried different technologies and they could not solve this problem.
But they had a deadline.
And if you don't meet the deadline, you could be in trouble.
So they put together the best scientists in the country, and in three months
they solved the problem.
They could have solved this problem in five minutes
if they used functional analysis.
What is the function of a glass bulb that we have in a light bulb?
This function is to stop air from reaching the hard filament.
There is no air on the moon, so we don't need this function.
And therefore, we don't need the glass bulb.
You see?
This is how we break psychological inertia, which
is the ability to think and do things the same way as we'll always do.
The second reason why we need functional analysis
is because functions are universal.
Let's say you take a water filter that you have in Brita or any other device.
What is a function of a water filter?
To stop impurities, right?
But different water filters and differently designed filters
would look differently.
You can not use them.
And by the way, the air filter that you have in a gas mask
will look completely different.
And I'm not talking about air filters in your car or in air conditioners
and so on.
And yet, all these filters are performing
the same universal function--
to stop impurities.
And if you think about functional approach,
you could use technology from one area to another.
Remember the peanut butter example?
Cement industry versus food industry.
It's only because functions of moving particles are universal.
We work with a company in the semiconductor
industry that faced a severe problem.
The photoresist polymer that they were using would start, from time to time,
bubbling.
And they had to scrub the whole run of wafers, which
would cost them $1 million a day.
So they dealt with objects.
There was a photoresist polymer.
And they obviously invited the best polymer scientists in the world
and asked them to solve this problem.
And they offered them a solution-- two years
and $3 million development that will develop a new polymer.
And yet, if they looked at the functional approach
and defined problems that they had in a functional language,
which was how to remove gas from liquid--
and this function is universal.
And there are many areas of science and engineering
and different industries where people know how to perform this function--
carbonated beverage, scuba diving, champagne production.
In champagne, they need to perform the opposite function, right?
How to contain gas in liquid.
But if you know how to perform one function,
you could perform the opposite.
They actually adopted the solution from the champagne industry,
and for $65, solved their problem.
So the second reason is functions are universal,
and they allow you to connect things that are not connected
and adopt technologies from different areas.
And the third one, functional approach helps
you to identify problems that you could not have seen using other approaches.
And by solving those problems, you will advance your development,
developing new products and successfully commercializing them.
Let me give you an example.
There was a company in Europe that was making water heaters to boil
a glass of water to have a cup of tea.
The normal heater that they put in a glass of water
would boil the water in 120 seconds.
Their marketing showed that if they reduced the time down to 45 seconds,
they would get an extra 35% of market share.
They applied functional analysis and they
identified that bubbles of air, which is the essence of boiling,
were performing harmful functions.
They were stopping heat transfer from the coil to the water.
So the problem that they need to solve was not
to increase power or change surface properties of the coil--
which, by the way, every engineer in the field was telling them to do--
but to perform a function to remove air bubbles.
And they found technologies to do that and developed
a product that was less expensive than the original
that they had and was boiling water in 45 seconds.
So there are three reasons why functional approach
is useful for successful commercialization.
Number one, functions break psychological inertia.
Number two, functions are universal.
They allow us and help us to connect industries and technologies that
are not connected.
And number three, they help us to identify problems
that we haven't been able to identify using other methods.
And overall, functional approach is the key
for taking great technological advancement, advance
at the main parameters value, and bring technological advancement
to commercial success, which is what successful commercialization is all
about.
