
SAM KOGAN: As we discussed before, any successful commercialization
of technologies should be guided by three major principles.
First, it's all about innovation but not invention.
Invention is about creating technical novelties.
Innovation is about creating value.
Second, it's about main parameters of value,
which are the attributes of a product and technologies
that drive purchasing decisions.
And last but not least, it's about function--
function is the goal, technology is a mean.
These three guiding principles of commercialization
could be used for different applications.
Today, we will talk about one of the most difficult and important one
is finding new applications for existing technologies.
The benefit of finding a new application is obvious--
it's growth.
A new application for existing technology could fuel this growth
and help companies to prosper, but why is it difficult?
There are a number of reasons for that.
First, resources-- nobody has unlimited resources.
Neither people, nor money, nor time.
So we cannot boil the ocean.
We need to find a way to be successful using the limited resources
that we have.
Second, finding new application is not about finding technical solutions.
It's about finding applications where our technology could
address new parameters of value of these markets.
And last but not least, it's all about creating value
for the end users or the customers.
So as I said, it's not an easy process, but we should not give up.
There is a structured process that we will discuss that help all of us
to go through this difficult process of finding new application for existing
technologies.
This process consists of four major steps.
In each of these steps, we will be answering on one major question.
So let's look at them one by one.
First step is discovery.
In this stage, we will answer on one major question.
What are we looking for?
We will define our technologies and prepare it
for the search for a new application, but we will define
it using functions and parameters.
The second stage is called search.
This is kind of a normal search for new application,
but we will use functions and main parameters of value
as a new taxonomy of this search that would allow us to focus our search.
Third stage called synthesis and selection.
In this stage, we will look at all possible applications
that we have found and decide which ones are the most
promising, which ones could create the highest value for end users
or customers.
And finally is validation.
In this stage, we will need to answer a very important question--
what needs to be done to successfully apply our technology
for this new application.
So three guiding principle-- innovation, main parameters of value,
and functional approach--
used to address one of the most challenging issues of any research
organization-- finding new application for existing technology.
