
SAM KOGAN: So let's look at another case study.
We will apply our process that we have discussed,
trying to find application, new applications for the patent that
was developed by Air Force Research Laboratory.
This patent was focusing on developing technology
for real-time evaluation of damages in thermal conductivity between two
interfaces.
It's an important target, especially for the application that Air Force Research
Laboratory was looking at.
Its apparatus will go into space and work in other conditions
where thermal damage is possible.
So how does technology work?
It takes two surfaces, sends the signal, vibrating signal through the surfaces,
and then detect it on the way back and compare the signal that it
gets in the way back with the base signal
that they developed before the surfaces could be damaged.
So a potential advantage of this technology it's fast,
it's inexpensive, and could be used in real time.
So remember our process.
First, discovery, defining our technology
in terms of parameters and function.
What does our technology do?
What function does it perform?
Its main function, to inform the operator
on a status of thermal conductivity between two surfaces.
Why this information is important?
Because then operator could make a decision of either
to modify the surfaces, improve, replace, and so on.
So what we will be looking at, we will be looking at potential areas
where heat or other means could damage a connection between two surfaces
and see if our technology could do better.
We also will look at the areas where some auxiliary function of our technology,
for example, vibrating could be used.
So function is vibrate, inform, damage, overheat, and parameter
is fast, inexpensive, real time.
So once again, subject, action, object, heat, damages, surfaces.
Heat overheats surfaces.
This is what we're looking for.
The Google search reveals around 25,000 potential hits.
So as we discussed before, it's not practical.
We will do the search in US patent base, because it's
a well-structured database, easy to search,
and secondly, it could give us a business intelligence.
It will tell us in what areas people thought
that heat could damage the interfaces and where
it's important to know about that.
It's not surprising that the search revealed
almost 3,000 relevant patents that could be structured in 35 technology domains.
And it's actually good news and bad news.
There is good news, because there are potentially
a lot of applications where our technology could be used.
The bad news that we have to do the work and look
at a number of potential relevant patents.
Let's look at some of them.
Let's say patent that measures damage in turbine blades
that exposed to the heat.
It's industrial application or application in semiconductors
industry, where it's important to test the inkjet
surface under thermal stress, or it's another application
in medical technology where endoscopes are
being put in autoclave to purify from all the possible bacteria and so on.
And we want to know if they were damaged or not.
Fuel cells, especially solid oxide fuel cells,
are notorious for being damaged by the high temperature gases,
and it's critical to know that the membranes of fuel cells
are not damaged.
That's another application or application
for detecting of electrical corrosion between two surfaces.
And once again, when the surfaces are corroded,
the thermal conductivity is decreasing.
So by using our structured approach and analyzing US patent base,
we've identified a number of potential applications.
Now let's look at potential new targets.
So heat could damage not only thermal conductivity of the surfaces,
but also contact areas or electrical resistance
or structural integrity of the surfaces.
So remember, heat hand moves, instead of air,
we could look at different targets.
Let's look at a potential new functionality of our technologies.
Where else we could use it...
Remember, auxiliary function to vibrate.
Can we use our technology for spreading different substances,
for increasing thermal grease connections and so on.
Once again, we're looking through the US patent database
to identify new applications.
But not all applications are equal.
Some of them are more difficult to adapt.
Some of them bring more value than others.
And eventually we need to look at the potential market size.
So once again, we will look at three parameters,
and compare the technology of potential application of our technology using
ease of adoption, value proposition, and potential market size.
So now let's look at what our search revealed versus original applications
that developers in Air Force Research Laboratory were thinking of.
They were thinking about a number of applications, like large structures,
like aerospace industry, like manufacturing analysis, or electronics.
Our search revealed few new areas of application,
like medical technology, electrical machinery, energy,
but as well, new applications in areas that they were looking at,
like aerospace and electronics.
So to summarize, we might say that using three guiding principle, innovation,
main parameters of value, and functions, through the process
of discovering new application that consists
in four major steps: discovery, search, synthesis, and validation,
we could identify new application of existing technologies,
and then start working on bringing these new technologies to the market.
