
KARIM LAKHANI: There's a ton of hype around innovation, entrepreneurship,
commercialization.
Thousands of books are written every year about this topic.
But let's cut through that hype and focus on what really matters.
When we're innovating, when we're commercializing,
when we're being entrepreneurs, we're engaging in problem solving.
That's the thing that all of us do when we're taking on these activities.
And so in order for us to become better at innovation, at entrepreneurship,
at commercialization, we want to become better at problem solving.
And thankfully, we have 50 years of literature in the cognitive science
sciences and psychology and sociology and economics
that has tried to make progress around how people
can be effective problem-solvers.
And one very powerful approach is to think about problem solving
as a search process.
You are searching through a landscape for solutions.
And this approach is very helpful for us.
And the way to think about this is that a searcher-- you as an innovator,
as an entrepreneur-- has to have two things to be effective.
One is a perspective, how you represent the problem you're going after,
how you're defining the landscape that you're going after.
And then secondly, you need a heuristic.
How do you then find your way through that problem-solving process
and find an appropriate solution?
How do you traverse this landscape?
So innovators go through creating a perspective and a heuristic
pair when they are solving problems.
So let's now make this fairly concrete and specific
and make this accessible to us.
I want to go back to your high school days when you are learning trigonometry
and you're learning various ways to do math and algebra and geometry
and so forth.
One of the things you might have learned about
has been the Cartesian coordinate system.
Really, what was being talked about was, how do you represent objects
in what's known as Euclidean space?
Now, there are two different ways to represent an object.
You can use Cartesian coordinates-- if you remember,
x and y-- to represent an object.
Or you could also use what's known as polar coordinates.
You can represent an object by a radius and an angle, as well.
So depending upon the object you're trying to represent,
you might have a different coordinate system.
You might use a Cartesian system to represent a rectangle.
It's fairly simple and easy to do.
But if you were to represent a rectangle through polar coordinates,
it would be very difficult.
Similarly, if you took a circle and to represent that
through a Cartesian coordinate system, it would be very difficult.
But it's very simple through the polar coordinate system.
What this nice toy example is telling us is
that any problem, any technology in what we care about
can be represented in multiple different ways, multiple different perspectives
and multiple different heuristics.
And so what may be tough and difficult in one perspective and heuristic pair
may actually be super easy to solve in a different perspective and heuristic
pair.
And so for entrepreneurs, what we want to do
is find ways to generate multiple perspectives and heuristics
on the same technology.
Because the choice of the perspective and heuristic
that you're going to go after is going to, in many ways,
define the difficulty that you face.
And certain problems can be novel and difficult
and even unsolvable with one perspective, but then fairly easy
in a different perspective.
The Euclidean space examples of the power of alternative perspective
heuristic pairs shows us how some problems
that are hard in one perspective heuristic framework
can be relatively trivial in another perspective and heuristic framework.
So let's go beyond the toy example of finding objects in Euclidean space
and let's look at the world of life sciences.
Here, you can imagine again that different perspective heuristic
pairs will be very helpful in solving core problems in life sciences.
If you think about the world of neurology and brain problems,
we can model the brain as a biological organism.
We can model the brain as a chemical engineering organism.
Or even, we can model the brain as an electrical engineering problem as well.
Depending upon the perspective heuristic that we apply,
some problems will be easier in the electrical engineering
framework versus some will be easier in the biology framework.
And in fact, we see this happen quite a bit in epilepsy.
In epileptic treatments, you can do electrical stimulation
to alleviate some of the symptoms or you can
take drugs that affect both your chemistry, your brain chemistry,
as well as your biological features to help alleviate epileptic episodes.
And so in this case, what we see are depending upon the perspective
heuristic framework, we can be more or less successful in solving problems
that people face.
Another example in life sciences comes from synthetic biology.
Here, protein folding is a major bottleneck
when it comes to making progress in discovering
new drugs that impact the human body.
And oftentimes, they're faced with large bottlenecks
for computational processing.
A paper published in 2005 showed that methods
that were well understood in material science could be taken
and ported over to synthetic biology to drive massive improvements
in performance, orders of magnitude improvements in performance.
This happened because a postdoc saw some stuff in a material science
class--
he was taking that as a side project--
and took those methods that were commonly used there,
and then when he brought them over to protein folding had a massive impact.
Here again, what we see is the power of an alternative perspective heuristic
framework being applied to within the synthetic biology world,
importing something from a distant field and bringing it in to the field
that you're participating in.
Let's go to one more field.
Let's talk about something far away from biology.
Let's talk about the world of finance.
In finance, there's a history of importing perspectives and heuristics
from physics and engineering to solve tough finance problems.
So in 1959, Osborne showed that the market could be best understood
through methods of Brownian motion.
Brownian motion is a core part of how we understand physics.
And Osborne brought that perspective to understand financial market data.
More recently, Black, Scholes won a Nobel Prize
for their option pricing equations.
And their initial cut on this option pricing work
was very complicated and hard to solve.
They met some folks in mechanical engineering
and they looked at those equations.
And those guys said, oh, this is basically a heat mass transfer
equation, and here's how to solve the problem.
And so what was very tough for them with one perspective heuristic framework
became easily solvable with the heat mass transfer framework
that the mechanical engineers taught them.
All of these examples show us that entrepreneurs
are going to be better off by systematically thinking
about perspective and heuristics for the seeds that are being created that they
have available to them, and then use that to generate
new options in the marketplace.
