
KARIM LAKHANI: Many of you may be familiar with 3D printing
and actually take it for granted.
But this was a revolutionary concept identified in 1989
by Emanuel Sachs, a professor of mechanical engineering at MIT.
Now, prior to 3D printing being invented,
most manufacturing was known as subtractive, right?
You took a block of metal, or you can imagine Michelangelo's David,
take a slab of marble and then you subtract the material out of it
to create your good, your sculpture, or whatever you're trying to do.
You do subtraction from materials.
3D printing was an additive approach.
So, it is a revolutionary view.
So, instead of taking things out, you add materials layer by layer by layer.
And this was the great innovation done by Professor Sachs and his colleagues
at MIT.
Of course, they patented this technology in 1989.
And then eventually, it led to 40 more patents,
and then a brand new industry started.
But if you read the patent abstract, 3D printing was described as a process
that deposits of binder material onto a powder bed with inkjet printer
heads layer by layer.
That was a patent.
And you can see from this description that how to use this technology
and what different businesses you could generate from this technology
was not necessarily clear.
Professor Sachs invented 3D printing in 1989.
And then creates a patent around this.
And MIT's Technology Licensing Office then
decides to invite entrepreneurs to come up
with different business opportunities for this single MIT invention.
Out of these eight individuals, eight entrepreneurs
that thought through the different perspectives
and heuristics on the market opportunities for 3D printing,
MIT ultimately granted four non-exclusive licenses to entrepreneurs
to create new companies.
The fields in which they went into included architectural design,
drug delivery, ceramic filters, and metal casting.
And what we'll trying to do now is to take each of these four companies
that got started at MIT from this initial seed technology
and apply our perspective and heuristics framework to each example.
Z Corp, or "Zed" Corp, if you prefer, started to come to the market
with coming up with better ways to make models
for architecture and industrial design.
The entrepreneurs behind Z Corp were trained as mechanical engineers
at MIT with previous experience in industrial design
and in architecture markets.
And they immediately saw how 3D printing could solve a big bottleneck that
comes in architecture design and in design engineering
and industrial design, which is the creation of prototypes.
It used to be that you would design something on your CAD system
and then send it off to somebody to make the actual model.
This could take a lot of time and effort, and was expensive.
So, the perspective that the entrepreneurs at Z Corp had was,
let's actually make this happen at the desktop itself.
So, the perspective was, let's take this seed technology
and apply it to the architecture and design market.
And the heuristic that they used was to actually create
a 3D printer that would sit in somebody's office, like a shared
printer that you use normally for printing.
They said, let's make a shared 3D printer.
Now, they could have, also-- their heuristic could have been,
let's make a giant service bureau with lots of these printers sitting around,
and you can email your files over, and then they could FedEx it back to you.
That's not the heuristic they used.
They used the heuristic of, basically, a desktop printer.
So, this example shows us how both a perspective and heuristic
around the same 3D technology created a prototyping business for Z Corp.
Therics, a drug delivery company, took the same seed technology
and had a very different perspective and heuristic on this.
Here, the idea was that traditionally when pharmaceutical companies make
pills for us to ingest, they use binders and powders and drugs,
and they compress them into tablet form or coat them or put them
into capsule, which makes pretty challenging how
to control the amount and time and sequence of a drug delivery.
Oftentimes, you want to be very careful about the dosage you provide
and the delivery of that dosage once that drug is in the body.
What these entrepreneurs, who had experience
in pharmaceutical manufacturing for pills, said was,
if you could in fact make pills by just coating them layer by layer,
and creating the right materials in a way that
would release on time or temperature, then all of a sudden,
you have a very process to deliver drugs.
So, the perspective on 3D printing was one around drug delivery.
And the heuristic was to create a completely alternative manufacturing
processes, by which you can manufacture 3D printed pills at scale
for the pharmaceutical industry.
This example, again, shows us how a very different perspective and heuristic
pair on the same technology can yield us very different outcomes.
Specific Surface Corporation provides us with yet another example
of how perspectives and heuristics can be applied to the same seed technology
to come up with wholly different business options for us.
The founders of Specific Service Corporation
had work experience in coal-burning power plants.
And they saw 3D printing as a way to manufacture
more durable and more efficient ceramic filters
to be used in a coal burning plant.
So, the company approached this perspective as saying,
instead of us now trying to go to a tooling set or a die or a mold,
I can directly create ceramic filters layer by layer
directly from the computer drawing.
And I can do this at scale.
And so, here, again, we have an example of a different perspective
and heuristic pair on the same technology being
used for the marketplace.
Our final example is a company called Soligen. Soligen
was focused on making cast metal parts.
And the problem with making cast metal parts
is that the forms and tools you need to make the cast metal parts
are very expensive and time consuming.
So they thought, let's actually make our forms for the cast metal parts
through 3D printing, and let's make them through ceramic technology.
So let's make those most directly by creating a ceramic from 3D printing.
So, the perspective was now not of making a part
but making a mold for the cast metal parts themselves.
That was their perspective.
And the heuristic they used was to say, let's,
instead of using the traditional ways to make our cast molds,
let's use 3D printing to solve this problem for us.
All these examples together show us how the seed we have
of 3D printing, our base technology, can have many different perspectives
and heuristics applied to it and then use
that to generate a whole new set of entrepreneurial opportunities.
And the challenge for us, when we're going to take something from the lab
and bring it to the market, is for us to generate multiple perspectives
and heuristics on the particular seed that we have access to.
