
KARIM LAKHANI: The perspective heuristic problem-solving framework can also
be applied to a range of additional seed technologies.
One of the most exciting technologies where
this is becoming clearly applicable, is in the case
of CRISPR-Cas9, a breakthrough discovery at the beginning
of the century around gene editing.
CRISPR-Cas9 turns the paradigm of genetics on its head.
Previously, we have thought of ourselves as having genetics that are fixed.
We are born with a certain genetic sequence.
And that's what we're left with.
CRISPR-Cas9 asks the possibility that we can go in and actually edit our DNA,
edit our genes, and use that approach to create resistance to diseases,
solve many ailments that living organisms face.
The technology, the discovery, was made in 2012 and 2013
through two different teams working separately, one at UC Berkeley
and University of Vienna, including Professor Jennifer Doudna and Professor
Emmanuelle Charpentier.
And researchers at the Broad Institute at MIT and Harvard, Feng Zhang
and his team.
And they both showed how CRISPR-Cas9 could be used as a gene-editing tool.
The application of CRISPR-Cas9 to sickle cell disease
is an example of how perspectives and heuristics can
be applied to an important problem.
So the current approach to solving and curing sickle cell anemia
is through a bone marrow transplant.
But this solution is associated with serious risk, including death.
And also it's contingent on the availability of a donor.
Here, the perspective is that we need to replace somebody's bone
marrow with fresh bone marrow, which does not then
produce for us the sickle cell anemia in our bodies.
So it's a radical approach to fixing this problem that people may face.
CRISPR comes along and provides a different perspective and heuristic.
What it says is, let's go after the source of the sickle cells, which
is really a mutation in the gene that makes the blood cells.
Let's go and edit that particular gene itself,
and then use that to actually stop the disease.
So for the same problem, what you see are
two different perspective and heuristic pairs,
applied through CRISPR and through bone marrow transplantation
to solve this problem.
But now we can take an even broader perspective.
CRISPR itself is a tool that is amenable to different perspectives
and heuristics.
For example, we can apply CRISPR-Cas9 to not just sickle cell,
but to cancer, HIV, and malaria, and a range of human diseases
that allow us to edit our genes.
But we could also apply it to agriculture, for food production,
and to energy, and creating new biofuels.
And in fact, there's an exciting venture that's
been created by Craig Venter and ExxonMobil
to actually create algaes, and improve the energy production of algaes,
through CRISPR gene editing.
And their current reports say that they have more than
doubled the amount of oil produced by algae by using CRISPR-Cas9.
So again, you have a seed technology available to then populate
different application spaces in the economy.
CRISPR-Cas9 provides us an example of how a perspective and heuristic
pair of gene editing can apply to diseases,
but then also be used to generate new innovations in agriculture and energy.
In all these examples that we have discussed so far,
the key thing for entrepreneurs to do is to take the seed technology,
generate perspectives and heuristics on that--
and not just one perspective or heuristic,
but multiple perspectives and heuristics-- and then
figure out what may work the best for a particular opportunity
space or particular technology space.
No longer should you just think about yourselves in one particular vertical,
or one particular industry.
But focus on saying, for a particular seed,
what are the all the different perspectives and heuristics that I
could be applying across industries, across applications.
And then use that for you to generate your business ideas.
