
KARIM LAKHANI: The prior example of how perspectives and heuristics,
alternative perspectives and heuristics, can create breakthrough solutions
in the field of finance or in the field of protein folding
will probably raise a couple of questions in your mind.
Probably you're skeptical, saying, well, first of all,
it was pure serendipity that Black and Scholes ran
into some mechanical engineering professors
and they were able to trivially solve their complicated equations
or that a postdoc just happened to, by accident,
take a class in material science and then solve
the R&D problem in protein folding.
And so serendipity might be the answer.
And it's hard for us to engineer serendipity.
Or it could just simply be the feature of the university environment,
where we're very lucky to have by definition multiple perspectives
and heuristics across the faculty.
For those of us that are entrepreneurs, that
are innovators, that are commercializers of technology,
we may not have ready access to diverse perspectives and heretics.
So how do we solve this problem?
Over the last 15 years, my core research area
has been how crowdsourcing, how going to the crowd for solutions,
can, in fact, open up diverse perspectives and heuristics
through potential participants from different knowledge domains.
Crowds can do this systematically.
And today, crowds are available on demand.
A great example of this is a company that
was stuck with a chemical engineering problem that needed help.
In particular, Colgate-Palmolive, the makers of the Colgate toothpaste brand,
had a new formulation of fluoride for their toothpaste.
And what they were concerned about was that this new formulation of fluoride
was being dispersed into the atmosphere.
And they didn't want to have that happen because
of both the wastage and efficiency issues,
but also the environmental issues that go along with it.
So this new formulation was stuck in the lab
because the R&D team could not figure out a way to prevent this dispersion.
So finally, in desperation, they posted this problem
to a platform called InnoCentive, to have this problem be solved.
InnoCentive is an online marketplace established by Eli Lilly
to help their engineers actually and their scientists actually
source diverse perspectives and heuristics from around the world.
InnoCentive put this out as a challenge, with a prize amount.
And basically, Ed Melcarek, who was a electrical engineer in Canada,
came up with the winning solution.
Now, when Ed saw the problem, he immediately
went to a perspective and heuristic pair that was not in chemistry.
He was a electrical engineer.
So he used a physics-based, electrical engineering-based solution
to this problem.
And the solution was pretty darn cool.
What he did was he said, all you need to do
is add a positive charge on the fluoride powder,
a negative charge or ground the tube, and all of a sudden
there won't be any dispersion whatsoever of the fluoride
when you try to mix the toothpaste with the fluoride.
For this effort, he got a $25,000 prize.
And he only spent a few hours outlining the solution to this problem.
But what it shows you is, again, the power now
of the perspective/heuristic pair in going to somebody completely
outside of the field of the problem to generate a winning solution that
can solve this problem, that Colgate was stuck on for some time.
There's some other really cool examples of this.
I've got several papers written about this if you're interested.
We'll put that up on our readings list.
But another cool example was the development of an edible polymer
delivery system for drugs.
And different winning solutions for this particular problem
came from an aerospace physicist, a small agribusiness owner,
a transdermal drug delivery specialist, an industrial scientist.
All four of these individuals took different perspectives and heuristics
on the problem.
And they all came up with successful solutions.
So the key for us is to think about how we can rely on the crowd
to help us systematically generate new, alternative, and multiple
perspective/heuristic pairs for our problem solving efforts
and for commercialization efforts.
