
KARIM LAKHANI: Crowds have a important role
in the history of technology as well.
Before the invention of the modern university or the modern corporation,
governments and societies relied on crowds
to help solve tough technological problems faced by them.
A marquee example of this comes from the UK.
In 1707, part of the British fleet sank off
the south coast of the UK due to bad navigation and bad weather,
a common occurrence in the UK as you know.
The UK parliament, faced with this naval disaster,
established the Longitude Prize in 1707, where
they offered 20,000 pounds for anybody they
could come up with a working solution to finding the longitude at sea.
In those days, it was very difficult to find out where you were in the world.
Today, with our cell phones, we can know precisely
our location because there are satellites up in the air
telling us where we are.
Now, the interesting thing about the prize that the British parliament set
up was that they put Sir Isaac Newton as a chair of the prize
committee and a principal adviser to the parliament on this prize.
And Isaac Newton felt very strongly that the only approach to solve this problem
was going to be through the methods of astronomy.
Now, as you know, Isaac Newton himself was a scientific giant at that time.
So when he said that the only methods that mattered are ones in astronomy,
he was taking a perspective/heuristic approach
based on his prior experience in astronomy
and applying it to this problem.
Regardless of what he said, there were a ton of solutions that got offered.
In fact, more than a hundred were proposed.
Some of them were quite creative.
For example, somebody proposed that we should
have telepathic dogs on ships, that would
bray when we crossed the longitude.
[BARKING]
Other people said all we need to do is put cannon platforms at sea,
that would go off at certain times.
[EXPLOSION]
That would inform the ships passing by as
to what the location was going to be.
Again, a very practical solution to this problem.
The winning solution for this ended up coming
by the invention of a clock or chronometer that
could actually keep track of time.
Here, John Harrison, who was an unknown carpenter in Yorkshire,
came up with the winning solution because he understood
expansion and contraction of materials.
The problem at that time was that clocks that were being made
could not keep track of time once they left shore.
Once you were on the ship, because of a temperature change, and humidity
change, and the motion, clocks would very quickly lose track of time.
And the solution relied on the fact that once you knew the time
you left that shore and the time currently you were faced with,
you could through trigonometry, come up with a proper location
of the longitude.
Now, what we see here again is by going to the crowd
we can get a diverse perspective and heuristic
pairs that can be applied to a problem.
Some may be successful.
Some may not be successful.
But that's the whole point.
Here, when we want to generate a variety of perspective/heuristic pairs
to solve our problem.
Other historical examples of this include designing the dome
at the cathedral in Florence.
That was done by Brunelleschi, who was not an architect, but a goldsmith.
And also the invention of food canning to feed Napoleon's armies, done so
by a pharmacist.
So throughout history, crowds have been an important way
in which we can generate at scale diverse perspectives and heuristics
to help us solve problems.
