
KARIM LAKHANI: Now, you must be wondering,
why is it that the crowd, a random set of people that we basically
ask the world to come help solve our problems,
can outperform the most elite institutions?
Our lab has been working on this problem,
trying to understand it and unpack, why is it
that the crowd can beat solutions from as far back in history as Isaac Newton
to now Harvard scientists or Broad scientists or scientists
at other elite institutions like NASA?
And what we have come up with is a fairly simple explanation.
Many of you may recall in statistics that your professor talked
about the fact that you can represent any activity
through a statistical distribution.
For example, the normal distribution, the Gaussian distribution,
or the Bell curve distribution-- they're all
describing the same thing, where basically the outcomes you're
getting from a particular process follows a probability distribution that
looks like a bell curve.
Now, when you do something once, what statistics
will tell you is that the first time you do something independently,
you will get a statistical distribution which
is going to give you the average value.
Over time, as multiple people start to do the same activity independently,
you will see the entire distribution shape up.
Now, what the crowd allows us to do is it
allows us to see the entire distribution of results.
We see the bad and the ugly--
so think back to cannons at sea, as well as braying dogs,
all the way to a great extreme value solution on the right side
of the distribution from what came about--
from the chronometer, from John Harrison,
to the examples that we've talked about so far in modern times.
So what the crowd allows us to do is to come up with the entire distribution.
And then as people sponsor the crowd, we can pick the best ones,
the tail parts of the distribution.
And often, this tail part of the distribution
is way better than what even the elite institutions do.
The elite institutions end up being the average, because they're just
taking one crack at the problem versus a crowd gives us the entire distribution
and then we pick up the tail part, the extreme value part of the answer.
