
KARIM LAKHANI: We can now put the crowd approach
to generate multiple perspectives and heuristics within a broader innovation
framework.
Within innovation studies, there's been a consensus
among scholars and practitioners that what
matters for innovation are increased amount of ideas and the variety
of ideas.
And, of course, the crowd will give us both of those.
And so the crowd can help us generate those ideas
but innovation also requires selection.
Not only do you want lots of ideas and lots of different ideas,
you want to actually be able to select amongst those.
And the one way to envision an innovation process in a company
is to think about it as a funnel.
The front end of the funnel has lots of ideas flowing in
that we can use a crowd to generate.
And then there are various selection gates
that help us pick amongst the most promising ideas
and then push them through the development process
till they consumers and our customers.
So generation and selection are actually two very important activities that
drive the innovation process forward.
And we can take this idea of generation and selection
and then apply them within a framework of a two by two.
The two by two has two dimensions.
On the bottom axis, we have idea generation knowledge distribution.
Here what we mean by this is our perspective heuristic pairs
that we need to solve our problem...
us it narrowly distributed?
Are they actually sitting within one person, one team, or one company?
Or are they broadly distributed in the world?
The second axis, the vertical axis in the two by two
is the selection knowledge.
Where do the perspectives and heuristics on what to select amongst all the ideas
that are being generated-- is that concentrated in one
person, one team, one genius inside of a company?
Or is it broadly distributed in the economy,
in the market place, et cetera.
And the two by two then helps us now start
to think about how to position the use of crowds
to solve a variety of innovation problems that you might be faced with.
The first quadrant in our two by two is the bottom left one.
Here the perspective is that very few people, individuals,
or teams or companies have the idea generation knowledge.
They can, within themselves, be really good at creating the perspectives
and heuristics takes to come up with solutions
and, similarly, can, in fact, select amongst them within the company itself.
In this quadrant and the bottom line defines internal R&D.
When we have internal R&D at companies like IBM or Google or Facebook,
their belief is that within these companies
are enough teams who can generate their own perspectives and heuristics
and can select amongst them that they don't need
to go to the outside world for help.
But as we've seen, the outside world can be a great source
of perspectives and heuristics for both selection knowledge and generation
knowledge, of course.
Now, the use of contests is a way to think
about a world in which we can rely on people from around the globe
to help us in generating new perspectives and heuristics to come up
with solutions.
So lots of people come through and have broad knowledge distribution
for a problem to come up with potential solutions.
And then a few people inside the company know how to select amongst them.
And that puts us in the bottom right quadrant.
The top left quadrant is one where we anticipate that a few people can
come up with the great ideas, but lots of people can help select them
and, in fact, can help improve them.
This model of a consortium has been widely used
in the development of technologies of the internet.
The worldwide consortium was set up as a way where a few people would
have great ideas of protocols and then the whole world
would get engaged in improving on protocols and select those protocols
and standardize those protocols over time.
Finally, the top right part of the quadratic of the two by 2
gives us a quadrant where we can be fully crowd enabled model.
Here the crowd helps us generate all the ideas
and also helps us select amongst those ideas.
A clear example of this is the Linux and open source movements
where lots of people in the world collaborate together
to build on each other's knowledge and share those ideas
and then select the best software being produced.
But even in commercial enterprises, we now see the use of full on crowds.
My favorite company in this is Threadless,
where Threadless enables the world to submit ideas for the graphics you
want on the t-shirts.
So many different perspectives and heuristics
are being generated for the graphics.
And then their whole community helps vote on them
and select them and come up with the great answers
that they then print for their customers.
And so this is a great example of a company
that makes physical products this way, but also the app stores that we now
see proliferate in the smartphone marketplace.
The app store really is a view that says the perspectives and heuristics needed
to generate great apps is widely distributed in the world.
Anybody can have a great idea of the app.
And then also the market determines what wins and what gets selected,
not one person instead of a company deciding what the best answer is.
So this framework helps us as entrepreneurs, as commercializers,
as innovators to be open minded about the use of the crowd
to generate for us perspectives and heuristics--
both for coming up with new ideas, but also in selecting those ideas to bring
to the market place.
