
RANA EL KALIOUBY: Emotion AI or artificial emotional intelligence
is this notion that computers need to understand human emotions
and be able to respond to it in a smart way.
We actually envision that emotion AI is going to be ubiquitous.
If you look at human machine interfaces, they're
quickly becoming conversational and voice-driven.
They're quickly becoming perceptual so we're
starting to see the ubiquity of camera sensors
and this idea of computer vision.
So I believe we're a few years away from computers
understanding humans in a truly fundamental way, which
means that there are many, many applications of this technology.
And I think for Affectiva, that's both the opportunity, that's
what makes it so exciting, but it's also the challenge.
From day one from spinning out of MIT, we've always had inbound interest
from a number of industries and that--
we had to take a step back and first define
what are the industries we're never going to play in because they
don't match our core values.
But then beyond that, we had to identify, OK, which of these industries
do we actually solve a real problem?
And what is that pain point that we're solving?
And then is this a big enough space for us to play in?
And so I'll give you one particular example.
A couple of years ago, we got inbound interest
from a Japanese automotive company.
And that was a space that we knew was interesting to us.
But we didn't play in at all.
And so when this Japanese automaker approached us,
we were like, hmm, that's interesting.
So we took on the project as a way to explore
the market and kind of fine-tune the technology
so that it works in the automotive context.
But in parallel, we took a very kind of thoughtful, strategic approach
to identify, OK, how big is the automotive industry
and how big is our play within it, like understanding
driver safety or distraction or drowsiness or intoxication.
How big is that space?
And then we kind of projected to the future
where it's all going to be robo-taxis.
And we're like, OK, what's our play within the robo-taxi world,
like understanding the occupants and personalizing content to them.
How big is that market?
And then we quickly realized, OK, that's like a huge business opportunity.
Combining that strategic approach with proof
of concepts with that particular Japanese automaker
allowed us to decide that we want to play in that market.
And then we were able to prioritize it and build products specifically
for that industry.
So I think it's not always easy.
There are definitely industries that I'm particularly very passionate about,
but I also understand that it's important for companies to focus.
And I will say because we've been focused on the automotive industry,
we've been very successful in the last couple of years,
especially the last year, because we're able to--
what's the-- because we're immersed in that industry, we know their problems.
We know the customers.
We know our partners very well.
And that's allowed us to be very effective.
I do believe that using proof of concepts as a way to explore a market
is really critical.
And we've done that many, many times because it
allows you to really understand what are the partners needs,
but it also identifies the main gaps in your product.
So again, I'll give the automotive example.
When we worked with this Japanese automaker, all of our work
up to that point did not involve doing anything in the car.
It was mostly on your phone, you're watching video content.
And so to repurpose the technology for a car context, we had to-- we were like,
oh, people move their heads all the time.
That's a challenge for the technology.
Or when you're driving at night, how are we going to handle that.
So we had to retrain all of our algorithms
to recognize people's emotional and cognitive states using
both a normal kind of camera sensor, but also a near-infrared camera sensor.
And then we had to retrain the face detection algorithm
to work from different angles to allow for different head movements and so on.
So I think I really am a big fan of using proof of concepts
to explore market opportunities and also build deep partnerships.
It's the best way to find advocates that want to try--
early champions of the technology and build deep partnerships
and relationships with them.
