
VISH KRISHNAN: Let's now consider temporal reconfiguration.
Opportunities for such temporal reconfiguration
arise when an innovator or a firm can take ownership
of customer assets or responsibility for performing customer processes related
to their primary activity chain.
Such reconfiguration typically involves a shift
in the boundary between the activities performed
by the firm and those performed by its customers
within their core activity chain.
The motivations behind such a shift are threefold.
First, the innovators at firms may have a capability advantage,
because they are better at managing assets,
at performing business processes that are closely related
to their core competencies, but not that of their customers.
Second, these innovators or firms can create a scale advantage
by aggregating demand across customers to create economies of scale
that they can pass on to their customers.
Third, these innovating firms can apply knowledge about best practices
from a range of industries where they provide such services.
So when automotive companies like BMW move beyond designing and manufacturing
cars to shared car clubs, they are really
engaging in temporal reconfiguration.
Let's now consider spatial reconfiguration.
Opportunities for such reconfiguration arise
when an innovator or a firm that is already
present in the customer's primary activity chain
seeks to take charge of existing activities in a secondary activity
chain.
Consider Nike, which started as a company that sold shoes out of a truck
at sporting events.
Nike today is, of course, the largest sports and fitness company
in the world.
Nike's central business focus is the production and marketing
of shoes, playing equipment, and apparel for a variety of sports.
While focusing on products related to the primary activity chain,
Nike noticed an opportunity to get involved in these secondary activity
chain associated with learning to play the sport better.
Customers involved in some sport often engage coaches or attend sport camps
to improve their game.
Building on its own brand reputation, Nike
is now partnered with the US sports camps
to offer Nike running camps, Nike tennis camps, Nike golf camps, et cetera.
These camps are held in numerous locations
nationwide, offer mental, as well as physical training, related
to more than a dozen sports.
The camps typically offer live-in facilities
and provide training that is tuned to different age groups and expertise
levels.
Camp directors are typically chosen from among the top coaches in the sport.
The Nike brand serves as an attractive vehicle
to position and sell these camps.
And in turn, the camps themselves reinforce the brand
and enhance participant loyalty to Nike products.
In a nutshell, needs-driven innovation is
an exciting area with lots of opportunity
to exercise imagination and creativity.
It is as much an art as it is a science.
We have discussed a couple of methods here.
But there are many other useful techniques
one could develop in the field by oneself.
All along, we tired to focus on the real outcomes, the benefits,
the utility sought by customers.
As the famous business writer Peter Drucker eloquently
pointed out, what the customer buys and considers as value is never a product.
It is always the utility.
That is what the product does for him.
So we need to go beyond the shallow interactions
and conversations with customers.
We should recognize that customers may not sometimes
fully know what they need.
They may be myopic.
They may be functionally fixated.
And we also need to identify solvable needs and those
for which we have the ability to get paid more than the cost of innovation
itself.
It's hard to tackle difficult, nearly impossible needs,
like mitigating climate change or solving the Alzheimer's
problem in the short term.
We also need to make sure that the needs are well-aligned with the seeds we have
and the team we have.
And we need to also have a solid creed or a value proposition,
which is the proposal for how we are going to create value
for our customers, and how we are going to capture that value, which
is a value creation for the investors.
All of this gets encapsulated into what's
called the business model, a very central topic in science
and technology driven innovation.
