[MUSIC PLAYING]
KARIM LAKHANI: So far in the course, we've
been providing you with the toolkit on how to accelerate innovation coming out
of labs from universities, from the Department of Defense laboratories,
or from corporate laboratories.
And we've been focused in on coming up with business ideas
around the seeds of a technology that you have access to,
as well as the needs that may exist in the customer environment.
Now we're going to focus our attention on the business architecture
that you need to create around the particular analysis you've
done at the seed and the need.
A business architecture has two big components-- the business model
that you're going to go to market with and the operating model that's actually
going to make that business model work.
So I often meet entrepreneurs, and even business people,
and they talk a lot about business models.
"Oh, I've innovated on the business model."
But I often find that when you push them hard on what
the change is or the difference is in the business model,
it's very difficult for them to articulate.
And so what I'm going to offer you now is a way
to analytically think about the business model,
and there's two dimensions to a business model.
First is value creation.
What are all the reasons a customer comes to you
and wants to interact with you?
That's a value creation.
What value are you creating for your customer?
And the second part of the business model is value capture.
How do you actually make money from the transactions
you're having with your customer?
And it's important for us to actually dive deeper into both those concepts
and figure out how we can actually innovate on the business model itself,
above and beyond the technology that we're actually creating and bringing
to the marketplace.
So let's talk about value creation first.
The most simplistic form of value creation
is some kind of a differentiation.
You are offering something differentiated in the marketplace.
Imagine, in the car market, you could be selling a Jaguar
or you could be selling a Lamborghini or you could be selling an Aston Martin.
You're differentiating on various features of the car itself.
Now imagine also, another way to create value
is to have a low cost story, so you could
differentiate on the basis of cost.
So you could be selling a Honda Fit or all the way
up to a Mercedes Benz or a hard to acquire Bugatti.
Millions of dollars for a car or $10,000 or $15,000 for a car.
So you can create value by differentiating on cost.
You can also create value by doing a focus strategy.
You could be--
I'm just a sports car provider.
All I do is sports cars.
Or all I do is electric vehicles, like Tesla,
or I am a car manufacturer that makes cars available of all types.
And so that could also be a way for you to create value for your customers.
In today's internet-driven world, we actually now
have other ways to also create value, where in the first three sets,
we're focused on the product itself or the service itself that we're offering.
Now we could actually think about network effects.
Network effects are things that create value based
on the usage of the product itself.
So think about Facebook, think about Whatsapp,
think about all these different products, all these services
that you use, where as the number of users increases,
the value to you as an individual user also goes up as well.
That's what's called a direct network effect kind of a business.
You could also imagine a product or service where it's not just
the number of users that increase value, but the number of complementary assets
that exist around that product or service that also increases value.
So think about your smartphone and all the apps.
These apps create increased value for the phone itself.
So think about the app stores and how they
increased value for the actual physical product or the phone itself.
And so you could have indirect network effects
based on the fact of complementary assets being
created by others that plug in to your particular product or service.
There may be additional ways of creating value in terms of personalization
and in terms of various ways in which you
drive engagement in the use of the product itself.
So value creation has all these different dimensions,
and innovation in a business model can come by somebody
being smart about creating differentiation advantages, cost
advantages, focus advantages, or even saying,
I'm going to actually create network effects
or drive personalization or engagement.
And different businesses take different components of these elements
and create value for their customer.
Now, let's shift to value capture.
Value capture is all the ways in which you make money.
Now the oldest form of value capture is, one,
where you make a product for a certain cost
and then you sell it to the customer for a higher price than the cost itself,
and you make money on the difference, also known as a margin.
So that's that the oldest way in which businesses, since time immemorial
have operated.
And that's one value capture strategy.
Another value capture strategy might be licensing,
where you don't actually sell the product,
you actually sell the usage of that product to a customer,
and that also becomes a way for value capture.
You can do subscription.
You can have a subscription service that allows monthly payments
or weekly payments for usage.
You could do pay-per-use services.
So just imagine when you use a ride sharing service like Uber,
you don't subscribe to Uber.
You pay per use for the transportation service.
You could have an advertising-supported system, where, in fact, what's going on
is that your usage attracts advertisers, and those advertisers want access
to you, and that's what pays for the service itself.
So think about Google ad search.
When you're searching on Google, you're actually not searching
for advertisements, but Google is giving you the most relevant advertisement
based on that.
So that's, again, a very different value capture strategy.
You can have transaction fees based on a particular usage
model that you might have built. For example, the number of megabytes
or the number of petabytes being stored.
You could be doing revenue sharing, where you create a lot of advantage
for a customer, which enables them to increase their own personal revenue,
and then you get a cut of that revenue.
Or you could be outcomes based, which is to say
that you will guarantee certain outcomes,
and when those outcomes get achieved, you will get paid.
So just like in value creation, there's now multiple ways for us
to create value.
There are now also multiple ways for us to capture value.
And when you think about a business model for a particular technology
or for a particular product, particular service,
you want to be systematic in your analysis of value creation and value
capture.
And think about not just what you're going to do in the marketplace
or on value creation and value capture, which again, defines your business
model, but what the competitors are doing in this case as well.
[MUSIC PLAYING]