RAMANA NANDA: I am a professor at Harvard Business School.
I've been at HBS for about 12 years now.
And my research and teaching and case writing
is all related to entrepreneurial finance.
So I teach a second year elective class on entrepreneurial finance
where we go through a whole bunch of questions
that are quite related to actually to the things we're talking about today.
The first module looks at business model.
So how should we think about building companies
in a way that will require the least amount of external finance as possible?
So what we like to tell our students is, that raising external finance
from a venture capital investor or others
is really not necessarily a badge of honor.
You do it when all other sources of capital are not feasible for you,
because venture capital is a very expensive source of capital.
So part of what we do at the initial part of the course,
is to think quite deeply about business models.
What are the ways in which businesses generate cash flow?
And how can we maximize the amount of cash flow
that a business is generating, so that we can use our internal cash
flow to grow the business rather than have to raise external finance?
We then go through and talk a lot about the kinds of capital
that people could raise.
The various cash flow and control rights and other terms
that are associated with them.
So we get people to think about the fact that money is not just money.
It comes with strings and the incentives of the people
who are giving your money.
And so understanding the intricacies of how
that interacts with the needs of your own business
is an important element of the second module.
And the third module really looks, and third and fourth and the last module,
looks a lot at applying all these insights
in the context of different companies at the early stage, growth stage, where
we look at different forms of capital.
So we look at angels, we look at accelerators,
we look at early stage venture firms, growth equity.
And then we look at other non-dilutive sources of capital,
like receivables financing or debt or even government grants.
The last module is an exciting module for me.
We look at pioneering new frontiers.
So we look at technologies that are new to the world, not just
new companies, which is what the first part of the course looks at.
And there, there is a bunch of questions that
are entirely different for entrepreneurs, which is around thinking
about how should we even get people and investors to believe
in the possibilities of this technology?
How should we shape the way in which regulators think
about the uses of these technologies?
And how can we get enough enthusiasm coming
into this space to be able to create a category of its own?
So we do, we've done a case on our blockchain.
We've done a case on Hyperloop.
We'd done a case on a new space where there's
a company that's trying to take out space debris
and figuring out how to finance that.
So that's a bit of the course.
My own research interests are really centered
around thinking about the systematic financing
barriers that might prevent the best ideas from being commercialized.
So there is now a really well accepted understanding
within the academic literature that entrepreneurship
is a key driver of economic growth.
And that's through two very important channels.
One is, most new to the world technologies are often commercialized
by entrepreneurs, new ventures.
And the second is that there is a process
of what's called creative destruction.
Older incumbents that are not as efficient die out,
and younger firms come in and replace them.
And young firms are very important in that process.
They're very important in job creation.
And so entrepreneurship is really this engine of both technological change
and growth.
But at the same time, one of the key barriers to entrepreneurship
is raising capital.
And so a lot of my work is focused on trying
to understand what are the systematic barriers
that different types of ventures face in getting commercialized?
And how can we understand them?
How can we quantify the sizes of them?
And how can we work with policymakers or the financial intermediaries themselves
to figure out ways to help alleviate those systematic frictions?