PETER BARRETT: Again, one of the really important things in our business
is networking-- or what I like to think of my job, is connectivity.
How do I connect the dots between the experts
in the field and the entrepreneurs and how we make decisions?
How do we get the best information to make decisions?
And we've developed a very strong relationship
with our customers-- that is, the major pharmaceutical companies.
And we have the ability to actually converse with them early
on when we're starting these companies.
And it's not about, will you buy this?
It's about, we are looking at this really new technology
in this particular disease--
what would you like to see, or what would patients
like to see, to understand that this could be a real new innovative approach
to disease mitigation?
So we get that input.
And that's really sort of on the end user with what data
we should be looking at or what approach we should
take to studying this new technology.
That's critical.
And beyond that, we leverage our own internal resources
of, as I said earlier, the portfolio and other scientists--
because we're also trying to develop that map, if you will,
of de-risking experiments.
So the market side is really the customers, who are ultimately
the big pharma for the major diseases.
Of course, a lot our companies with orphan diseases
could actually market their own products.
And in those cases, very often we go to the advocacy groups or the foundations
that center around these orphan diseases,
because they have a wealth of knowledge that they've
been accumulating not only from the research that's done in the field,
but from the patients that have those particular diseases.
Feedback, I always say is a gift, but what do you do with that gift?
So if you're getting a lot of gifts from multiple different people
and those gifts don't look like the same gift in terms of feedback
on your particular idea or your particular issue
that you're working on, it can be a very hard problem.
But first of all, you have to trust certain people in the end.
And you also have to trust your instinct.
Now, in saying that, there are many times when we've been wrong.
You know, we've turned down investments or we've invested in things.
And both sides of it, we've been wrong.
But you have to make sure that you're triangulating and getting
different views.
You know, no one in this business is smart enough to do this alone.
So soliciting feedback, views from different orthogonal sources,
is what we try to do.
you know, people at different ends of the spectrum of, in our case,
developing therapeutics is very important.
And then in the end-- it is really intuition in the end
that that may make the best decision hopefully for what you're trying to do.