KARIM LAKHANI: In this module, we will learn
about how you can get systematic feedback and validation
for the concepts you have developed.
In the earlier parts of the course, you have already
generated potential use cases for the technologies and the matching business
architecture concepts.
There are many hypotheses that are built into your concepts,
and now we need to go out there and think about this systematically
and comprehensively.
Previously, we introduced you to the Cloverleaf model
to provide you with a framework on how to evaluate
the various aspects of your business.
The key thing here is to have a framework for evaluation.
Cloverleaf provides you with one framework for evaluation,
but depending upon the technology you may have, and the business you have,
and the business concepts you have, you may
choose to develop your own framework, or borrow some from somebody else.
It can be different for each business, but the critical thing
is to have a framework towards evaluation and feedback.
The way you get to assess your business is to ask questions.
You have to go out there and ask questions of yourself, and your team,
and the knowledge base you already have about your business concepts.
And, even more importantly, you need to go outside.
You need to go outside and talk to customers, to potential suppliers,
to potential manufacturers, and get them to also test and validate
your assumptions and your hypotheses that are built into your use concept as
well as your business architecture.
Again, the Cloverleaf framework can provide you
with a set of questions you want to go after.
As you think about the Cloverleaf framework,
look through the questions you have asked yourself convincingly,
and those where you think you want to go and get
more information and more validation.
Or you may have your own framework, and you may choose again
to see, where are they open, question marks for yourself that
need to be dug deeper.
We have offered a range of resources in the course on various techniques
to interview effectively.
The bottom line is that you have to get out
there and start interviewing people.
The goal of interviewing is to get you close to the market.
You don't want to spend time and resources in developing something
that no one wants.
Interviews are an effective way to get the maximum amount of information
for the minimum amount of resources that you have sunk.