
RAMANA NANDA: So the first VC Firm as we know it today actually
arose in the mid 1940s, the American Research and Development Corporation.
But, yes, venture capital as a really well-established institution
really began to take off in the late 1970s and early 1980s
with the advent of the semiconductor revolution and the biotechnology
revolutions.
And then, it really came into its own around the internet era,
where there was a massive amount of capital that came into play.
Now, of course, those are recent technological revolutions.
And we've had several technological revolutions
in the United States going back hundreds of years.

So my colleague, Tom Nicholas, has actually
written a history on venture capital, and has traced back,
in many ways, the origins of venture capital
to the formation of intermediaries that were
using risk capital in many similar ways in the mid 1700s and early 1800s.
So, for example, there were voyages that went out, whaling ventures,
that went out to actually hunt whales.
And the organization of the way in which the ship captains
worked relative to the people who deploy capital towards them was, in many ways,
quite similar in the ways in which the risk and reward were
shared between the various parties.
And we can trace that all the way back to modern day venture capital.
There was, obviously, technological revolutions in the late 1700's, early
1800s.
The cotton manufacturing in Lowell was, today,
what Silicon Valley is in many ways.
And then we had steel, and rubber, and motor cars.
So moving to Cleveland and Pittsburgh, and then to Detroit,
these were all incredibly technologically advanced industries
and cities in their time.
And we have histories of angel investors in these regions, in the Midwest.
For example, Andrew Mellon was, I think, one of the Secretary of the Treasury
at the time.
But he was an active angel investor in the Pittsburgh, Cleveland area.
And we know for a fact that the investors in Ford Motor Company,
and Westinghouse, and General Electric, these
were all backed by angel investors at the time who really helped
commercialize those technologies.
So, in many ways, the history of risk capital in the United States
has a very long history.
But the ways in which risk and reward were shared,
the ways in which cash and control rights were developed,
have evolved over a reasonably long period of time.
But the modern day institution of venture capital, as you point out,
is relatively recent.
We've also had family offices.
So Venrock, for example, was a family office.
It was a venture firm that evolved from the family office of the Rockefeller's
Bessemer Ventures, it evolved from the family office of Phipps,
who was involved in the steel industry.
So those are all interesting examples of how venture capital kind of traces
its lineage to a long history of angel investors
and wealthy individuals who were making pretty risky investments in their time
into what was, at the time, very, very interesting and novel frontier
technology.
