RAMANA NANDA: So as we think about how to pitch to venture capital investors,
it's important to remember that VC is a hits model.
So they are looking for the home run investment.
What they want to see is that you have thought about a way
to turn your idea into a product that can be a hit
no matter how low that probability is.
So oftentimes, people think that they're going to pitch a compelling--
a high probability outcome that will have low--
sort of a low value if it's successful.
So I will guarantee you that I can be a $20 million a year company.
That's not as exciting for a VC because they
know that there is a very, very high chance
that this thing will fail anyway.
And so what they want to be able to see is if it's successful,
can it deliver me a home run.
And so what they are looking for is have you
thought about what would it take to get your business to being a home run
understanding that it's going to be a low likelihood of success.
But what would be all the things that would
need to line up for this to be a very successful venture?
What would that state of the world look like?
What would have had to have gone right for that to happen?
And then can you show them that you have thought
about what are the things that could go wrong
and how are you going to be trying to understand
whether that's going to happen while deploying less amounts of money?
How will you ensure that you are trying to get the odds stacked in your favor
so that over time, you can reduce the likelihood that this thing is
going to fail and increasingly deliver that home run for them?
So very often, people kind of get stuck in this I
will pitch you the most likely outcome.
And that's not going to be the right way to do it.
You want to be pitching the most exciting outcome while understanding
that there is a low likelihood of doing so, of achieving it,
but at the same time, being thoughtful about understanding
what are the barriers that will be needed
to have gone over to be able to get to that very, very low probability
but exciting outcome.
So as we think about home runs from the perspective of a venture capital
investor, they're really thinking about this in economic terms.
Of course, there are correlations between ventures
that are incredibly valuable for society and ventures that end up
being very valuable economically.
But it's not always the case that that is true.
Sometimes you will have ventures that exited for very large sums of money
but then ultimately ended up failing.
But from the perspective of a venture capital investor, the thing to note
is that they're making what's called an illiquid investment.
They're making an investment into a company where they're
getting some portion of the equity.
But they can't sell that equity to anyone right now.
Nobody is willing to buy that share in the company
because it's not traded on the stock exchange.
There is no market to trade that equity.
So unlike a publicly traded company, where I can just buy some shares
and I can sell them at any moment in time, these are private ventures.
And so there is no secondary market typically for these kinds of shares.
So the way in which the venture capital investors actually make money
is when there is some exit event, what they call an exit event.
And that exit event is typically if that company
is bought by another company where they then
buy all the equity in that company in return for cash,
and now the venture capitalists can turn their ownership into cash,
or what's known as an initial public offering or going
public where the company registers its shares on a public stock
market, an exchange, and then makes those shares tradable.
And the VCs can then take the shares that they own
and sell them to someone because now it's actually traded on an exchange.
So VCs are often looking for companies where they can make their investment
and exit again within a certain period of time.
And it's in that context that many science-based ventures or tough tech
ventures can be a poor fit with the time horizons
that VCs have because of the fact that they may take a lot longer to actually
build up to being valuable companies in part
because there's real physical investment.
You have to build a factory or you actually have to do real science.
You have to launch a satellite into space.
Those are all kinds of physical and time-consuming activities
that are different from programming a website, which
is much more in your control and can be done in a short period of time.
So I can talk briefly about the fact that VCs have really kind of really
been successful in some sense as investors
in a pretty narrow band of technological innovation, mostly really
information technology.
They have, to some extent, been successful in biotech.
But my colleague, Gary Pisano, has done some work
showing that that has only really been in a few moments in time.
And in general, even today, most VCs have
exited from funding biotech companies to the extent
that they're in funding health care.
They're in really in health care IT rather than in biotech per se.
So one of the big challenges I think that we face as a society
is being able to deploy risk capital to tough tech, to science-based companies.
And that's an area that is of active interest
both among academics, but also among practitioners.
So for example, there are the breakthrough energy ventures,
the venture that is trying to--
venture capital firm that is looking to try to make inroads
into funding clean energy ventures is trying
to take different approaches to building companies with different time horizons.
A number of family offices that are not fixed,
closed-end funds for 10-year periods are perhaps
more appropriate for some of these kinds of ventures.
And so as one thinks about building science-based ventures,
while there is this key difference between dilutive and non-dilutive,
I'd encourage entrepreneurs to think about being creative,
about reaching out to non-traditional investment sources,
and not necessarily stick only to VC if in fact the businesses that they're
building are ones that have much longer time
horizons or different kinds of capital needs
that might be better suited to investors that also share that longer time
frame or that ability to stay in the investment for a longer period of time.