
VISH KRISHNAN: Let's consider needs-driven innovation.
This is a term that we use to call the approach that starts with the customer
needs, the market needs, by immersing ourselves in the field, in the market,
observing customers at work, talking to prospective customers
to identify what are their pains, what are their problems, what
are their wants, what are their needs.
So an innovator begins such observations and then starts
systematically collecting data on these customer
needs, wants, and requirements, and ultimately captures it
into what might be called a Needs statement,
or in some companies and industries, they call it the Market Requirements
Document, abbreviated as MRD.
And to come up with this MRD, you may have interviewed tens of customers,
if possible, maybe more, hundreds, to get
a good understanding, solid understanding,
of what the marketplace needs.
This could result in identification of dozens of needs, requirements,
or problems which we are now trying to faithfully capture
in a single MRD, which is usually a crisp description of the market
requirements.
It summarizes the problems of the target or market segment and the outcomes
we expect for the segment.
The needs-driven approach has been found to be useful in many cases for sure.
But it also has to be artfully employed, and it
may be found lacking in some cases.
One of the major problems with this needs-driven approach
is what I would call the faster horse problem.
What is that?
I'm borrowing this term from Henry Ford who
is said to have remarked, "if I had listened to my customers,
I would have given them a faster horse."

What did he mean?
Yeah, sure, before Ford, customers were used to horse-drawn carriages.
And if you asked them what they needed, they would have said,
"I wanted a faster horse," because that's
what would take them to where they are going faster.
It was hard for them at that time to imagine a radically different future
where they could be propelled by machines, by engines,
like internal combustion engines.
So they were expressing their needs in familiar tones.
Such an approach where customers and users
express their needs in familiar terms and are
unable to imagine a radically different future,
this is sometimes called the functional fixedness,
as psychologists refer to them.
Customers are fixed in their functionality
and are unable to come up with new functionality.
So this is one of the problems associated
with the needs-driven approach.
Another problem is that, in some cases, customers
may not even know what they need.
They are so happy with their current solution that they may say,
I don't need anything.
This is the problem Motorola encountered 40 years ago when they first
came up with cell phones.
When they tried to do some market testing, people are asking,
do I really need another portable phone?
I'm happy with my current phones.
So customers may just dismiss away new needs that are potentially addressable.
Sometimes they may come up with tailored needs that may not be addressable,
that may not be implementable, may not be
solvable with the current state of affairs.
Consider the need that we all feel right now with increasing lifespan.
Our societies are aging, and now we have diseases of the old age--
dementia, Alzheimer's, and so on.
And one of the major societal needs is that Alzheimer's should
be cured or prevented if possible.
It's a universal need.
But the challenge is finding a solution that can address this need.
Therefore, innovation approaches that focus mainly
on the need side, that they're needs biased, are lopsided.
And they're clapping with one hand from the demand side,
and they may not be able to come up with the supply side solution.
Or they may come up with an incremental solution that is eventually not
compelling enough for market adoption.
Customer needs, market needs, need to play a pivotal role in the information
process, but we need to couple that with a more balanced, centered approach
that constantly synchronizes the demand and supply sides--
accelerated innovation, as we like to call it.
