RAMANA NANDA: This actually ties very nicely
to the question of, how much capital do I need to build this business?
So one of the things that we get students to think a lot about,
is the moment in the life of a company when
it gets to being cash flow positive.
And what that means is, that the company is generating enough cash
flow from its own operations that it doesn't need any external finance.
Not every business can be cash flow positive from the start.
In the example that I gave you, that lemonade stand
was cash flow positive from the very first day because of the subscription
model.
But most businesses are not going to be that way.
But we still have this ambition of thinking about,
can we get to cash flow positive as quickly
and with as little external finance as possible?
And so we want to be thinking very carefully
about how much cash we burn in the early days before we get to being cash
flow positive.
And so to that end, we think about, what are
the ways in which we can learn about the future potential of this business?
And can we do that as quickly and as cheaply as possible?
And can we run discriminating experiments?
Can we try to understand what is the likelihood of this idea working?
And what is the likelihood of customers being
willing to pay the amounts that we expect them to pay?
And how can we learn along the way by doing some of these tests
with customers to understand that?
And so typically the way it works is, very early in the life of technology,
we might not even know if the technology works.
This could be as early as sort of a science experiment,
where it's still in the lab.
But then once we get out of the lab, we want
to be able to see that it can actually work in the world.
And many times, I think scientists and engineers underestimate
the messiness of the real world and how hard
it is to take something that works in this perfectly controlled lab
environment and get it to work outside.
And so a lot of, particularly in tough tech and science-based ventures,
the earliest stages of capital are really
towards trying to understand that this technology works outside the lab.
What are the parameters?
What are the edge cases?
What are the boundary conditions around which this thing will break down?
Once we know that the technology itself has promise,
we can then begin to try to understand whether there is a use case for this,
and whether there is product market fit.
And in some sense it's sort of, the analogy that you could use
is, does the dog food actually, is there any sort of interesting new dog food?
And then, does one dog want to try to eat the dog food?
And then the third question you want to ask
is, will the dog pay for the dog food?
And then once we can figure out that we're profitable,
then we can take this and scale it up.
And so there are these discrete stages where
we want to understand whether the technology works.
We then want to see whether there is a product market fit.
Are people actually interested in using this technology?
And are they willing to pay for it?
The third stage is to try to understand as this company is being built up,
does it have properties that will allow the unit economics to actually
be high enough that this will be a profitable business that
will generate cash flow?
So are there scale economies?
Of course, the initial few customers will probably not
be profitable, because we have a lot of cost that will scale across lots
and lots and lots of customers.
And so initially, these will be unprofitable customers.
But the question is, can we see our way through to them being profitable?
And once we can demonstrate that, then we raise a large amount of capital
to just scale this up.
And so those are sort of some of the stages that we have.
And of course, between B2B and B2C businesses, the timing,
the amount of learning, and the various cash
flow characteristics can be very different.
With consumer businesses, there is a lot of focus on virality.
Is it the case that these customers, once there
is, how quickly are customers referring individuals,
referring this to their other friends?
How much does it cost us to acquire a new customer?
Do we have to do a lot of advertising or are people just
telling their buddies about it?
Are there network effects?
Those end up being very, very useful properties of consumer businesses.
The reason for that is, that if this business has network effects,
it's called a sticky business.
Why it that the case?
Because if my friends are on this platform,
I'm more likely to join the platform.
I'm less likely to leave the platform.
And so businesses often look at these metrics
around churn rates and stickiness.
And businesses that have, I'm sorry, investors
look at metrics such as churn rates and stickiness.
And so businesses that have these kinds of properties
end up being very valuable.
Another property that people look for in businesses
is, does it have scale economies?
Because what that means is, that once you
can sell this product to a customer, when you scale it up,
these fixed costs can be amortized across a large number
of customers, which then make this a very profitable business.
And so as we think about the drivers of cash flow,
obviously profitability is one big element of it.
And then asset intensity is the next big element of it.
And asset intensity really has to do with the timing of the cash.
The amount of cash, as we talked about earlier, that's tied up in an assets.
And that could be physical assets, like factories and land and labs.
But it could also be working capital, which
is sort of the example I gave you around timing.
And so as we think about this sort of growth of the business,
we want to be thinking about making it as asset light as possible
early in the life of the company.
De-risking and learning about the potential,
and then scaling it up at a later point.