RAMANA NANDA: So as we think about the various sources of funding,
we've talked about debt, and we've talked about equity.
And equity is just a fancy way of talking about shares in a company.
The number of shares that you own are not
as important as the percentage of the total number of shares that you own.
So as you think about your equity ownership,
the notion that you own 1,000 shares or a million shares or 10 million shares
is less relevant than the notion that you own 100% or 50% or 20%.
Because the ownership percentage ultimately
determines how much of the total value of the company you end up getting.
And so one common mistake that people make
is that they get very excited when they say,
oh, I have a million shares in this company.
Well, a million shares could be a large amount
if there's two million shares in total, or it
could be a small amount if it turns out there's
10 trillion shares in the company.
And that is an arbitrary number that just has to do with how many shares
there were at the start, and then how many we add as we go along.
So the first thing to note is that it's always
important to think about your percentage ownership,
and we often talk about percentage ownership in the fully diluted equity
of a company.
What that means is that sometimes we issue options,
and we issue warrants, which are just other types of--
another way of saying options.
And those options give you the right but not the obligation
to buy a share of the company.
But if we don't take into account the fact that people might have actually
exercised their right to buy those shares,
we won't know what the total number of shares in the company will be,
and hence, we don't know what percentage we own, often.
And so there's a tool that's called a capitalization table.
It's not really a tool.
It's just a way of accounting for how much equity there is in the company
and who owns what share of it.
And that capitalization table or cap table, as it's known for short,
is a way of keeping track of who are the owners who are the people who actually
own shares in this company?
How many shares do they own?
And what percentage of the total amount of shares in the company
are owned by someone?
I think another thing that people often end up
just is they think about how much--
think about the number versus the percentage of shares that they hold.
Another thing to be thinking about quite a lot is as an entrepreneur,
you want to be thinking about maximizing the total value of your ownership,
not necessarily maximizing the percentage of your ownership.
And this is the proverbial smaller piece of a larger
pie being worth more than a large piece of a small pie.
And so as you think about raising money and as you
think about who you take money from and what this business could become,
I think it's very important to think about what value these investors bring,
so they might be two investors.
One is asking for a smaller share in your company,
and another is asking for a larger share in your company.
But you might feel that the investor that's
asking for a larger share in your company
can really bring a lot more value to your company.
They might be able to connect you to interesting customers.
They might be able to help you close deals.
They might be able to bring in other investors.
The value that they can add might be so great
that the smaller share that you have of the company
would still be worth more than the larger
share you would have in the company that that other investor brought.
And so as you think about building your company,
you really want to be thinking about what's the total value of my ownership
and trying to really maximize that.
Rather than saying, I want to just own the largest amount of the company
as I possibly can.
And there is sort of a saying that one of my colleagues, Bill Solomon,
who is really one of the founders of entrepreneurial finance.
He talks about the fact that who you take money from
is almost or if not more important than the terms.
And so as we think about who we take money from,
what can they bring, what value can they bring, what do they bring to the table
beyond money, and how much will that be worth,
that's something that's often missed by entrepreneurs
as they think about building a company.