RAMANA NANDA: That said, there are very different types of investors.
You could think of a couple of key different sets of terms
that we help our students think about.
Some have to do with cash flow rights.
Some have to do with control rights.
And some have to do with incentives for having a successful outcome.
Investors typically will fall into two categories.
One are those that are called institutional investors.
These are people that manage other people's money.
So a venture capital firm, for example, has its own investors.
They're called limited partners.
These are people that put money into a fund.
That fund runs for about 10 years.
And so the venture capital investors will
take their limited partners' capital.
They'll deploy it into portfolio companies, which are these startups run
by people like yourself.
And they will hope to be able to get an exit, which means successfully
sell these companies, get the cash back, and then return it to their investors
all within a 10-year period.
And you can see now that because of that,
they have a very particular set of incentives.
They need to find companies which can get their capital and return it,
exit it within a relatively short period of time.
They want to be able to invest in companies where, given that about 60%
of them fail, they've only spend a little bit of money
when those companies fail and they can deploy more of their money
into companies that were ultimately successful.
So that even if 60% of the ventures fail,
they haven't lost 60% of the dollars into companies that fail.
And so the venture capitalists incentives
are very much around trying to look for what's called home run investments.
It's called a hits business for that reason.
They want to identify the few companies, the 5% or 10%
of their portfolio companies that will be incredible successes.
And they're willing to take very risky bets in order
to be able to achieve those.
And they want to learn quickly whether this company has that potential
and then begin to deploy more and more of the capital into those companies.
So you could think about the venture capitalist's investment strategy
as being one where they're buying a series of real options over time.
They're looking to see, can I understand whether this company has potential?
If it doesn't, I'm going to not invest in it any further.
If it does, I want to put more money into it.
And so a lot of the contractual terms that VCs have
are very much tailored towards that way of thinking about the business.
Now you, of course, it's your only business.
You're not taking an options approach to this.
You've got all your eggs in that basket.
The VC has a portfolio.
And so you can begin to see that there are going to be points of friction
where the VC might believe that relative to the other companies
in its portfolio, your particular company
is not where they want to be devoting their time and money.
Whereas you might, yet, if they choose not to invest in your company,
it will send a terrible signal to any other potential investor.
Because those investors will be looking to the insiders
to say, well, if the insider didn't invest,
what do they know that I don't know?
So I'm going to be a little bit careful about giving money to this company.
So the most important thing that I tell students
who are thinking about taking capital from venture capital investors
is to make sure that your beliefs and vision for the future
are aligned with your investor's.
What your definition of success is can be very different from what
the investors definition of success is.
You might feel that a $50 million exit for your company is transformational.
It allows you to go off and do all kinds of things with your life
that you had never thought you would be able to do.
The VC might see that as a relatively middling outcome
because they are looking for a company that can be a billion dollar exit.
Those points of friction are very important to try to be thinking about.
Other things that are subtle differences are people investing from--
they have a 10-year fund.
Are they investing in their fourth or fifth year of that fund?
Or are they in the first year of the fund?
You can see that that has a big difference
because if they need to exit by year 9 or 10,
having made an investment in their first year gives them eight years.
Having invested in the fourth or fifth year
only gives them three or four years.
And that can make a big difference for where you are in your business
when it's time for them to get ready to get in the mindset
for selling this company.
Venture capital investors and angel investors are different in the sense
that angel investors are investing their own money.
Venture capital investors, as I mentioned,
are investing other people's money.
So their approach to thinking about risk and reward might be quite different.
But by virtue of the fact that they're investing their own money,
angel investors typically have less capital available to invest.
And so you want to be thinking a lot about,
yes, you're getting money from these angel investors today.
But who are you going to have lined up to give you the next round of funding
if things go well?
And so just as with the VCs, this is staged financing.
Where they're looking to make this sequence of investments over time, you
as the entrepreneur are thinking ahead and saying, OK, if I take money
from this angel investor, what other investors
will I get access to in my next round of funding?
And are those the kind of investors I need
to build my company into a successful one or not?
Because there's a lot of path dependence.
Who you take money from initially will open certain doors
and shut other doors.
And so you always want to be having a forward-looking approach to this
and saying, yes, I have these options now.
But how do I think about what options it will afford me going forward?
And so in that sense VCs can be incredibly valuable
because they have deep pockets and they can
help you build a business if it's successful
and continue to fund the business and bring in their, what are called,
syndicate partners, people who they often
co-invest with as a way to continue to get the capital for you,
for your business.