VISH KRISHNAN: So this go-to-market strategy determination,
while this is an issue for everyone, it's
particularly a challenge for new entrant companies
that are just trying to break into a market.
So what should they do?
We will argue that they should strongly consider
partnering with established companies when their access to market
is challenged.
Let's elaborate on this a little bit.
How can they partner?
So specifically, they should consider a licensing arrangement
or a joint-development partnership with companies that
are incumbents in that marketplace.
Such an approach of joint-development is increasingly
common in the life sciences industry, especially the pharmaceutical industry,
where smaller biotech and pharma companies are trying to break in.
And they are finding it challenging to reach the customer
or to do expensive clinical trials.
So they would enter into joint development agreements
with larger biopharma companies.
Often the skills of the two parties are complementary.
The smaller company tends to be a fertile ground for breakthrough
discovery and development.
The climate is just perfect there.
And larger companies, on the other hand, have deep expertise
in areas of what I call market access.
In life sciences, this market access includes
getting regulatory approval, reimbursement issues sorted out,
and building a strong sales force to reach the customers.
Larger companies have figured out these market access
issues over many, many years.
So it only makes sense for smaller companies
to leverage these skills that have been developed over the years,
to strike a partnership so that we can achieve some synergies,
getting the best of both worlds, creating a pie that is greater
than the sum of the parts.
Another approach to partnership is to license your breakthrough technology.
What does licensing mean?
It's really giving a partner the permission
to use your discovery in their broader product or system.
This licensing approach is particularly helpful
if your innovation is really a feature of some other company's
well-entrenched, well-established product or system.
Let's consider an example.
You'll remember the company called TiVo, which in the last two decades
brought out digital storage and access capabilities to the TV set top
box and video recording systems.
At the outset, TiVo offered some fundamentally new capabilities,
such as being able to pause live TV and automatically record programs that
might be interesting to an individual.
TiVo made a big investment to build TV set top boxes that
could offer these capabilities.
Unfortunately for TiVo, it was taking on some very established companies
in the cable set top box and video recording
industry, who had significantly better access to customers
and their distribution channels.
TiVo struggled mightily to launch its own products.
In retrospect, its path may have been easier
if it had licensed its technology to established incumbents
by partnering with them.
Licensing, joint-development partnership--
these are definitely options for new entrants to consider.
Is it always necessary?
There is no one universally right answer.
Some innovators, some new entrants like Tesla,
have overcome challenges and gone directly to the customer.
But one could also argue that Tesla was more of an integrator company.
They were not really coming up with breakthrough component
technological innovations, even in areas like batteries.
So in summary, new entrants--
especially smaller companies, smaller ventures
that are launching breakthrough technologies--
should take go-to-market considerations very seriously.
Where there are market access issues--
it means where it is difficult to reach customers directly, where there
are significant regulatory hurdles--
it's important to consider a partnership business model.
This could take the form of licensing, or joint-development,
or even sales force partnerships.