
IRWIN JACOBS: We had a consulting request from Hughes Aircraft.
They had given a proposal to the FCC for a mobile satellite communication
system.
And they hired us to look at the technical aspects of their proposal.
Were there any errors in it?
Were there some small improvements that perhaps could be made?
And it was using somewhat traditional TDM, TDMA, CDMA--
not CDMA, FDMA type of technology.
And after the second meeting up in Los Angeles, during the drive
down the San Diego, about halfway, I suddenly realized
that with a system that was for a single user a mobile communication system,
that you're losing some use of the channel
when someone stops and thinks about what they want to say
or listens to the other side of the conversation.
And with usual technology, you could not give up the channel
and then get it back in time to continue your conversation.
And so you're losing the use of the channel.
You're losing capacity.
One technology, CDMA, Code Division Multiple Access,
the number of users at any given time depends on the interference
from other active users.
So if some of the users aren't active, they're
not generating interference at any given instant.
And on average, you can get a larger number of users.
And so I had that idea partway down.
And I said to one of the engineers, Klein Gilhousen, who
was driving at the time, please take a look at that
and see if, in fact, that can yield some significant improvement.
About two days later I stopped in Klein's office--
we were still a very tiny company--
and asked Klein, how did you make out looking at the CDMA approach?
And he looked back and he said, were you really serious about that?
So he hadn't really paid attention.
But after I convinced him, you know, it was serious, he began to look.
And we found a whole set of other potential opportunities
that would be offered by CDMA technology.
So we went back to Hughes and explained it.
It's complicated enough that it's very hard to get the ideas across.
But they agreed to let us pursue that for a bit.
And we actually were able to carry the ideas a little further,
be able to build a sample satellite that we could put up
on a hilltop and a sample receiver, and test some of the theory,
and find out that indeed, it seemed to be working the way we thought.
Unfortunately, Hughes heard back from the FCC
that was probably going to be several years before they
would act on their application.
So they cut off the funding.
Our problem then is that we didn't have any funding--
still too small, too few people--
to really continue on CDMA, which would take clearly a few years of activity.
We had had a contract on another program, which
we called Omnitracs, which was to put a satellite
terminal on mid and large-sized trucks, and allow the trucking operators to be
able to communicate with their trucks anywhere on the continent
and to also keep location of the trucks so they
could make reassignments and find out how best to optimize their operation.
And so we pursued that particular product
because we thought we could get that to market early enough.
And it turned out that was also very useful in other ways.
We were thinking OK, I'll go out and talk
with some of the very large trucking operators,
and tell them we can provide communications,
and think that they will be very excited about that.
But going out and talking with them was very educational.
Because you find out when you talk with the customer and you say,
I can provide this.
They say yes, but that's not my problem my.
Problem is I have a whole logistics system.
I have the drivers and I have to do the proper assignments.
We found very quickly we had to look at a much larger systems problem
and be able to not only provide the communication links,
but also get into the software that they were using
for managing their whole operation.
And so we stood back, thought about that--
again, a way to innovate while you're providing some capability,
let's look at the whole overall system and optimize or somewhat optimize that.
And we came up with some ideas.
And we won the largest trucking company in the country
at the time, Schneider International, to be able to take on our products.
That happened in October or so of 1988, a couple of years after we had started.
And once we had had that contract, we were now shipping some product.
And we were able to have a positive cash flow, and said, let's go back
and look at CDMA.
And by that time, the mid to late-80s, cellular was beginning to take off.
And so the industry had recognized that they could not simply
stay with the first generation of cellular communications, which
was based on analog communications, or FM radio.
But they needed to go from analog to digital.
The industry had looked at FDMA, Frequency Division Multiple
Access, TDMA, Time Division Multiple Access, CDMA,
Code Division Multiple Access.
And pretty much all the companies around the world that looked at CDMA
said either too complicated, no benefits, no market thrust,
and had given up on it.
So everybody was focused on either FDMA or TDMA.

At the beginning of 1989--
January of 1989, actually--
the industry then had a vote on whether to go with TDMA or FDMA
here in the United States.
And it was a very bitter fight.
And the industry decided on going with TDMA.
And so after that bitter fight, people began
to work toward developing the technology, moving to a standard,
and trying to move toward commercial equipment.
We, just a few months earlier, had started again to look at CDMA.
And it took until about March before we felt--
we think we solved all the problems that people were worried about.
And so I went to see PacTel Cellular, and presented
them our thoughts on CDMA.
And the first time anybody hears about CDMA, of course they--
it's probabilistic, you know?
Some of the users are talking.
Some are not.
What kind of a game can that give you?
And it's complicated code division.
You have to use codes to distinguish conversations,
and a whole range of issues.
But they were confident enough in the work we had done previously.
They knew about Linkabit and so on.
They knew Andy Viterbi, who was one of the founders, knew myself.
And so they said well, we're willing to listen.
And so we worked on it for a while.
We went back with them.
And they eventually set up a meeting with about 120 or 130 people
from the industry around the world in Chicago
where we could make a presentation about CDMA.
And these were people that were already working very heavily on TDMA
and most had looked at CDMA and thrown up their hands.
And so when I made the presentation, I thought there was about a 50-50 chance
that somebody was going to raise their hand and say,
here's something you forgot.
This is why it doesn't work.
But nobody did.
But of course, nobody was convinced by slides and presentations.
They said, yeah, we don't see any problems, but--
And so we immediately had to start working very quickly because everybody
was rushing toward introducing TDMA.
We had to start working very quickly to provide a demonstration system that
would demonstrate that we had solved the problems everybody identified
with CDMA.
And so we had to move from an innovation and innovative idea,
through inventing a number of different steps, onto how do we realize this,
at least as a demonstration type of system?
Well, we built two base stations and one portable phone.
The portable phone was unfortunately so large it
required a van to drive it around.
But we could then be able to demonstrate that we had solved the problems
people had raised with CDMA.
So we invited everyone back again to come here to San Diego in November
of '89, so just about a year after we started on CDMA,
back to visit and we could give them a demonstration on the fact we had solved
these problems that had bothered everybody.
Power control: could you keep everybody... when they were driving around coming
inside of a cell site not being in view of a cell site,
could we control the power fast enough so we
didn't cause too much interference from any particular user?
Could we do hand-offs between cell sites in a very smooth fashion?
Could we take advantage of the fact that one
has not just a single copy of a radio signal,
but reflections from all over-- you get multiple copies with multiple delays?
Could we solve the multipath problem?
So we had a number of things that we had to demonstrate
that we had solutions for.
We were successful with that demonstration.
That got the operators interested because with CDMA, we pointed out
that you could perhaps get 10 to 20 times the capacity, the number
of subscribers, in a given amount of radio spectrum,
that you could with TDMA.
TDMA, you might get three.
We could get 10 to 20.
That's a large economic incentive.
So the operators were interested.
On the other hand, they didn't want to have a phone that
took a van to drive it around.
So we had to develop some integrated circuits
to be able to reduce the size of the phone down to a commercial size.
And also, not just the phone, but also the cell sites
had to be commercial-sized as well.
To do that, we had to develop three chips for the phone and two
additional chips for the cell site.
And that was an expensive and time-consuming operation.
How are we going to pay for that?
