
VISH KRISHNAN: What is accelerated innovation?
First of all, what is innovation for that matter?
Seems like an easy question.
But believe it or not, very often innovation
is confused with it's cousin term invention.
Innovation is really bringing new ideas, approaches, technologies,
products to fruitful application, market adoption, and customer usage.
Invention on the other hand, is really bringing these new technologies
to life.
Birthing these new concepts to the world that are sometimes patented
often published in elite journals by scholars
and sometimes even resulting in Nobel winning ideas.
An example, the invention of the transistor, a major development
of the 20th century that unleashed the whole micro-electronics revolution.
Because innovation involves more than just bringing something to life,
but making it actually adopted and widely applied, easily used.
Not all inventors are actually innovators.
Consider the case of the transistor, which
is invented famously at AT&T's Bell labs and a few other labs.
Most of the innovation in terms of universally adopted products based
on the transistor actually happened elsewhere.
Bell Labs was so focused on creating the breakthrough technology... Intel,
Qualcomm, and a few other firms were actually
the ones that did the universally applicable products,
such as the computers and smartphones that we now
know well based on the transistor.
In fact, how many cases can we think of where the inventors also ended up
being the innovators?
Think about this for a bit.
Can you come up with some examples where the inventor ended up
taking the product to market and getting widespread adoption?
Pause if you like.
There are a few cases like Eastman Kodak, for example,
but it's not that common.
Why is it not so common?
Because the priorities and skills needed for invention and innovation
are quite different.
Inventors are interested in breakthrough research.
They are excited by those breakthroughs and may not always
prioritize more mundane product and market development activities.
More often than not, the company or the researcher
that produced these breakthroughs, they tend
to underestimate, minimize the aspects of adoption and at market usage.
Traditional technology transfer activities originating from these firms
tries to push a breakthrough technology onto the market.
It tries to dump it into the market without really developing
the adoptive capacity, the absorptive capacity in the market place
that actually results in innovation.
