
RAMANA NANDA: VCs often have different stages that they refer to.
It used to be the case that they started off
with a Series A investment, a Series B investment, a Series C investment.
These just had to do with the first and second and third investments
that these companies got from venture capital investments.
In the mid 2000s, it became much, much cheaper to start a new company.
Amazon Web Services came along.
So you didn't have to buy servers anymore.
You could just go onto AWS, and you could scale up as demand grew.
And there were many other developments, everything from open source software,
and object-oriented programming, and other technological advancements
that made it much, much cheaper to start businesses.
What that meant was that the first amount of money going into a company
fell.
And VCs were able to get into companies a little bit earlier
in the life of the company.
So they developed a new stage that was called the seed stage of investment.
And then it became even cheaper to start businesses.
And so they've developed a new stage that's
called a pre-seed stage of financing.
I think at some level it's less important to be thinking
about the names of these different stages
and more important to think about what you're
doing when you're taking your first amount of capital
and what you're doing at later stages.
And really the goal with raising money, there's
sort of a sense in which some people will argue, look, raise as little money
as you can as late as you can, because money from investors is expensive.
And you want to dilute yourself as little as possible.
While that's absolutely right, I think it's also
important to think about the fact that you have a lot more negotiating power
to raise your next round of funding if you have proven more with what you have
learned with the last round of funding that you had
and that you have some money that's already
sitting in your bank account, which means that you're not desperate,
which means that you have more negotiating power
with the next round of investors.
And so I think there's a healthy balance in how much you raise.
You obviously want to raise as little as you can so that you don't get diluted.
But you don't want to be running too low on money, because most of the time
you will end up using more money and more time than you had anticipated.
And it's those moments when you have run out of cash
and you haven't proven that your technology works
that you're going to have a very hard time raising the next round of money.
And so we think about raising relatively small amounts
of money in these pre-seed or seed rounds of financing.
The range is off sometimes as low as a few hundred thousand dollars
to a few million dollars, depending on what the business is.
And there the goal is really to demonstrate that your technology works.
The next round of capital that you raise is--
it could be a seed round.
It could be a Series A round of financing.
Different people will call it different things.
But the next round of funding is really to try
to demonstrate product market fit.
And there the idea is to show that customers
are buying this product, that there seems
to be some willingness to pay for it.
There is a compelling use case.
And you might be able to show something like a letter of intent from a customer
that they have actually been able-- they have
vouched that they want to buy this.
That's a great way to be able to raise an initial round of funding.
And then you prove out with that money that in fact their faith in you
was justified.
They actually like this product.
They're willing to start paying for this and that there's other customers that
are now willing to pay for this and that you're
beginning to show what the unit economics might be for this product.
And then finally, you have expansion stage capital
that you raise where that you raise that to deploy your technology at scale
in a way that then demonstrates that you are able to execute at scale,
you're able to be a market leader, and that you can compete with the very best
as a viable business.
And so those I think are the three sorts of discrete stages of building
a business, showing the technology works,
demonstrating that there is some sort of product market fit.
And then showing unit economics comes somewhere in the middle,
and then scaling that.
And it's really those inflection points that you should be thinking about.
And as you raise money, you want to be thinking about,
what do you need to prove to the next stage investors?
What are they looking for to put money into your company?
And you want to be raising enough money that
will allow you to run the experiments that
will enable you to prove to the next set of investors that you have a business
that they will find interesting and attractive.
And so that's the way I would advise thinking
about the relationship between the technology development
path and the financing path.
