KARIM LAKHANI: The important thing to note
is that you're going to receive feedback.
The good news is, you're going to get a lot of feedback,
because you're going to go out there and talk to at least 100 customers.
The bad news is, the feedback will both be positive and negative.
People might hate your idea people may say this will never, ever work,
or people may fall in love with your idea.
Most likely, it'll be somewhere in between.
And the thing for you now to do is to exercise judgment about the feedback
that you receive.
Don't just have confirmation bias and accept the good feedback
and say all the people that give you bad feedback don't understand you,
don't understand the product, don't understand the market,
don't understand the business.
You need to exercise judgment and learn from the negative feedback
as well to see how you might go back and revise your assumptions
and your hypotheses about the use case concepts and the business architecture
you have.
This process of getting both positive and negative feedback
is designed to reduce the uncertainty you have about bringing the concept out
to market.
But unfortunately, it won't answer everything you need.
You still have to go out there and take risk.
You still have to go out there and figure out
a risk you're going to take that as suitable for yourself.
And as you figure out your own tolerance for risk
around the enterprise that you want to launch,
you should think about two important things.
One is the worst case scenario.
What if it all failed?
You did your best.
You raised a bunch of money.
You spent your time, effort, resources on this idea,
but it failed, for whatever reason.
What will happen if it all failed?
Think through that outcome and think through the worst case scenario,
just so that you know what you're heading yourself into.
And if it all failed, do you have a bunch of outside options
that you could pursue if it all failed?
The second thing to consider is, are you going to be open to pivoting?
Pivoting is used a lot in startups, because even after you get feedback
from MVPs, the market changes.
Customer preferences change.
New competitors show up.
New technologies show up.
New use cases get developed.
So you have to be open to pivoting.
Those two things are going to be critical to help
you think through the tolerance for risk you have
and your decision to pursue the ideas that you are forming.