RAMANA NANDA: The way we like to try to explain to students what a firm is
is it's essentially a machine that takes cash, turns that cash into assets,
and turns those assets back into cash.
And essentially, that's what the engine of a firm is.
And the goal of the firm is to take the cash, turn it into assets,
and turn it back into cash as efficiently as possible.
And moreover, to have as little of that cash
tied up in assets at any moment in time.
Now the business model that a firm has is intricately
tied to the amount of cash that is tied up in assets.
So I'll just give you an example in the context of a lemonade stand, which
is a very simple firm.
The most simple cash business for a lemonade stand
is where I start with a little bit of money,
I buy my assets, which in this case are lemons, and sugar, and water,
and my stand.
And then I sell those and I get cash back.
And so maybe I started with $100.
I bought $100 worth of assets.
And then I turned that back, hopefully, into $150 worth of cash.
So I turned the cash into assets, and I turned those assets back into cash.
But that's a simple cash business.
Most of the time businesses don't work on a cash basis.
They often work on credit.
So what you might tell me is, look, I love your lemonade,
but just put it on my tab.
I'll pay you at the end of the month.
And so I start with $100.
I buy my lemons, my sugar, my water, my stand.
I sell you the lemonade.
I got a revenue of $150, but I didn't get any cash,
because you are going to pay me at the end of the month.
And so if I need to be able to continue running my business for, say, a month,
I have to start with $3,000 before I'll get paid even a single dollar.
And that just had to do with the way the payment was working.
Now think about a completely different business
model, different payment model where I sell you
a subscription to my lemonade business.
And then that subscription, like many subscription businesses,
you pay me in advance.
You pay me monthly in advance.
So I say why don't you give me your monthly subscription for lemonade.
And I'll customize it, I'll give you different flavors.
The big difference there is that you paid me your $4,500 in advance.
So I don't even have to start with $100.
You gave me the $4,500.
I'll take $100 of that.
I'll buy some assets--
lemonade, lemons, sugar, water.
And then I will turn that back, but I've already got the cash in advance.
And so you can see that these three different business models are,
essentially, it's the same business.
It's lemonade.
The profits on the business are exactly the same.
I'm always getting $150 for the $100 that I bought, that I started with.
But the timing which I got paid is vastly different.
And that itself can make a big difference in how much external finance
I need, because in the cash business I start with $100,
and I'm just running my cash business.
In the business where you owed me some money, instead
of turning those assets into cash, I turned them into another asset.
I turned them into accounts receivables.
And so a lot of my cash was just tied up in assets.
And the flip, the third example that I gave you,
you gave me the cash all up front.
So I never had to tie any of it up into assets.
And so that's a very simple example of how bootstrapping your business in some
of the questions that we like to ask early in the course, which
is why can't every business bootstrap?
And in part, the answer to that is that every business
can't bootstrap because the business model
that businesses have are different.
In some cases, we can run subscription models.
In other cases, we can't.
But we try to push people to think carefully
about how can we find ways to get as much of your money
from customers rather than financiers, because customer financing turns out
to be very cheap, very efficient, and is the best source of capital
that you have.
And people don't tend to think of their customers as financiers,
but in some sense they are.