RANA EL KALIOUBY: And I came to MIT Media Lab, and a couple of things
struck me.
First of all, the Media Lab has a very close relationship with industry.
So twice a year, we would invite all of our industry sponsors
to what we called "Demo or Die."
And it was an event where--
it was a week-long event where we had to show our technology.
You couldn't just show a PowerPoint.
That was not good enough.
You had to show actual prototypes of what you were building.
And so for a number of years, twice a year,
we'd have this Demo or Die, sponsor week, or Demo or Die week.
And we'd show our work.
And at the time, the technology I was working on
was basically building devices that could
help individuals on the autism spectrum interact with each other better.
But then we'd have all these companies who wanted
to use it for other applications.
So, for instance, Toyota wanted to use it to monitor
drivers who were distracted or asleep.
Bank of America wanted to understand the user experience and make it better.
PepsiCo wanted to use the technology to do product testing.
And I kept a logbook of all the different use cases.
And when we got to about 20 of these, we were basically ignoring these sponsors.
Because we had no mechanism of licensing our technology to these companies.
So Ros Picard, who was the MIT professor I was working with, and myself,
we went into the Media Lab Director's office.
And we said, you know what?
We need 10 more research students, because this is no good.
We're upsetting our sponsors.
And he said, this is not a research challenge anymore.
This is a commercialization opportunity.
And I had this knee-jerk reaction.
I was, like, no, no, no, no, you're messing up with my career plans.
I want to be faculty.
I had never-- it never crossed my mind that I would start a company.
But then I thought about it.
And I felt that I had this unique opportunity
to take something that I've worked on in academia, that I
was very passionate about, and then bring it
to the world in a very scalable way.
To me, that was the tipping point.
In academia, you're always pushing the state of the art.
You're always pushing the envelope.
But you don't often have the chance to apply something you've built at scale,
and really change how people either do business
or communicate with each other on a day-to-day basis.
And so that was the impetus for starting Affectiva.