
KARIM LAKHANI: Over the last several decades,
one best practice in new product development and new business
development has been for entrepreneurs to generate MVPs.
MVP is not, like in sports, most valuable player.
But in fact, it stands for minimal viable product.
And the term was coined by Eric Ries behind the lean startup movement.
The MVP is a minimum engineered product that
allows you to test whether your solution will appeal
to customers in a reliable fashion.
Many times, customers aren't able to articulate what they need well enough.
And showing them a PowerPoint of what your product is is simply not enough.
You have to have them experience the product,
experience the service that you are going to bring to the marketplace,
and then help you give feedback.
So the MVP consists of two different dimensions.
One is the internal team, your team, will figure out
a priority list of the functions and features
that you think your product or service needs to have.
That, then, needs to be offered to the customer
so they can experience it and give you feedback about that list of priorities
and the features you have.
They may hate the features.
They may ask you to develop different features.
Or they may give you updates on what the features really should be.
The essential part is to have an MVP that you can take and show
to a customer and have them experience the business concept, the use
case that you're trying to develop.
Now, of course, MVPs for deep technology products
are very different from software.
But regardless, the challenge that you have in front of you
is to develop an MVP.
Depending on the technology you have and the use cases you're pursuing
and the business architecture you're trying to develop,
there might be three different MVPs that you could conceivably launch and work
with with your customers.
The first would be a conceptual MVP--
a bare minimum set of concepts that you will show your customers,
and an illustration of how the world for the customer
will change if they were to adopt and buy your particular product or service.
The conceptual MVP, though, has to be more than just PowerPoint.
It has to put the customers through the process of experiencing
what their world would be like if they started to use your product or service.
Another type of MVP is a simulated MVP.
When it comes to some products and services,
it may be too expensive to generate the technologies that
underlie the product or service that you want to bring to the market.
It might be too expensive.
It might take a long time.
Yet, you can still conceive of the outcomes
that a customer will experience when they use your product or service.
So the challenge with a simulated MVP is to somehow simulate the outcomes
without generating the technologies themselves.
This requires some creative thinking.
But the opportunity for you is to show to customers
the outcomes of your technologies and get feedback on the functionality
and features of those outcomes without spending
all the time and effort and resources actually developing those technologies.
A good example of this is the Mechanical Turk.
Mechanical Turk was invented in the 1800s as a way
to play games with a seemingly robot.
The robot at that time was not actually real.
It was a person inside the Mechanical Turk that was playing those games.
But it created the simulation of an actual mechanical robot
solving tough puzzles.
So simulated MVP can be very useful in deep technology conditions,
when you actually don't have the resources to go out there and build
the technology in the first place.
The final type of an MVP is an actual prototype, where you actually
have built up a minimum engineered physical product or a software product,
and you're getting feedback from the customers
directly, by them touching or experiencing the product itself.
These three MVPs-- a conceptual MVP, a simulated MVP,
and actual prototype-driven MVP--
are critical to allow you to reduce the time you spend in development,
reduce the uncertainty about the features
that you need to create inside of your products or services,
and get valuable customer feedback to see if, in fact, that
your customers are going to value the things that you are prioritizing.
The maturity of the MVP will also link to your fundraising activities.
The more well-developed your MVP, the more feedback you
can show from customers about your MVP, the higher the likelihood
you're going to get to raise funding.
The key here, of course, is going to be iteration.
You develop your first MVP.
You get feedback.
That feedback helps you generate the next MVP, an even more detailed MVP.
And as you generate those MVPs, you will get a chance, then,
to also update your business architecture, use case,
and other elements.
Again, the notion here is feedback from actual customers
who will be using your product or service.
