
VISH KRISHNAN: Technology Readiness Level, or TRL for short,
is a framework originally developed by NASA
to understand the maturity level of different technologies
in their portfolio.
In this framework, technology readiness is usually viewed or read,
measured on several levels.
Originally, they used seven levels, and since then they
have expanded to add two more levels, nine levels.
Think of TRL like a yardstick to really understand where
we are in a technology's evolution.
The earlier, smaller levels of readiness correspond to technologies
in the very early stages of evolution.
A technology at level 1, for example, is very much in a stage of infancy, even
embryonic stage, you might say.
Some basic principles and characteristics
have been observed in the lab and reported
as a working paper, for example, but it may not have been fully validated
or replicated by peers.
So at this point, it's a little more than a hypothesis
and far from commercial impact.
This is like 3D printing in the mid to late-1980s,
or CRISPR gene editing in the early 2010s,
before it's even fully accepted in journals.
When the technology advances a bit more, it's been validated in a lab,
it reaches level 2 when it has been conceptualized more firmly
with some mention of potential applications.
And now, it's theoretically agreed to be viable by peers
and published in journals.
At this stage, a technology is still far from commercialization and very much
in the brains of the inventors.
But at least it has reached some level of peer credibility.
Level 3 is the first time that we reach a concrete milestone.
This is the proof of concept, or POC.
Then now we have shown, demonstrated analytically and/or experimentally,
that the technology is fully functional.
Sometimes this POC is just a computer simulation.
But this is still a key milestone in the evolution
of a technology, passing which makes it a serious candidate for funding
in the commercialization journey.
Proof of concept is now a major verification
for the viability of our technology and its underlying hypothesis.
And then we move to level 4, which is the prototyping phase.
So while a proof of concept is a basic demonstration of functionality,
now we want to show using in a more real parts, components,
that the system can really be built and tested under lab conditions.
And when we take that prototype and test it in real field conditions,
we are reaching level 5.
So levels 4 and 5 correspond to prototype development and testing,
first in the lab and then in the field.
They're still prototypes, but once we move these prototypes to a full system
pilot, we are said to have reached level 6.
So level 6, once again, corresponds to the case
where we are testing these full systems in a simulated environment,
a lab-like environment.
And we take that full system, and if we are
able to show that it works in a real environment like outer space,
for example, we have now reached level 7.
Subsequently, the NASA framework added two more additional levels, levels 8
and 9, to refer to the actual production system,
testing level 8 in a simulated environment,
and level 9 in an actual environment.
Once again, let's review this.
Levels 1 and 2 correspond to lab discoveries.
Level 3 brings us to the proof of concept.
Levels 4 and 5 correspond to prototypes first tested in a lab condition,
and then tested in a field condition.
Levels 6 and 7 correspond to full system development
and testing, first in the lab and then the field.
And levels 8 and 9, may be production systems using production parts.
For our purposes in the 21st century and in other industries,
going beyond defense and stretching into software,
we may not take the NASA's Technological Readiness Level framework literally.
But still, there is a strong analogy to this movement
of technologies, the maturation of technologies,
from lab discoveries to commercial readiness.
Indeed, the NASA's Technology Readiness framework
has been adapted to a number of other industries, including energy and more
recently, to health care.
But we need to use the appropriate terminology, the milestone markers
for each industry and market.
Take, for example, the pharmaceutical industry
where we are dealing with the discovery of compounds or drugs.
The Technology Readiness Level markers, the milestones,
might actually be first, the early stage research.
Level 2 is a discovery resulting in patent filings.
Level 3 is pre-clinical testing.
Level 4 is clinical safety testing.
Level 5 might be clinical efficacy testing.
Level 6 is a clinically controlled volume testing.
And level 7 might be the regulatory approval.
And then levels 8 and 9 might be launch and post-launch testing.
So there exists an analogy in other industries.
TRL's use is really in helping us achieve a more rigorous and more shared
understanding of a technology's maturation, readiness,
commercial status.
We want to know where in the lifecycle of a technology we really are.
In levels 1 and 2 we are often many years,
even decades away from a practical application.
In some industries like health sciences, it
may still be possible to get commercial funding for such early stage
technologies for credible, experienced teams because of the large market
that is available in front of us.
We may also see government funding in the form of Small Business Innovation
Research, or SBIR, like programs for early stage technologies.
Just because something is in the later stage,
it doesn't mean it's optimal to commercialize.
Sometimes it may be too late for a startup entrepreneurial team
to pick up a technology at the very late stages or higher levels of maturity.
Because this is the time when large, branded incumbents like the Apples
and the 3Ms of the world are really seizing on technologies.
So for small innovator teams, startup teams,
there might be a sweet spot somewhere around level 4, 5, 6 in the 7 to 9
level framework for a startup team to really pick up a technology
and seriously work on it.
