KARIM LAKHANI: So here's the tough part.
Interviews are all about approaching strangers, asking them for their time,
and getting raw feedback on your particular ideas and your business
architecture.
This is really tough. You have to go talk to a customer.
Most people will say no to you.
You have to get over the psychological barrier of rejection
when you approach somebody who might have valuable feedback for you,
and they don't have the time or the interest in your ideas.
They'll say outright no.
So the thing you have to do is get ready for the rejections.
Don't take the rejections personally.
Just view that as part of the process and eliciting feedback.
Many leading accelerator programs recommend that you
talk to at least 100 customers.
What that means often is that you might actually
have to call 1,000 people or 500 people, depending
on how lucky you are in the conversion.
Don't be afraid of making those phone calls
and getting time from people to talk to you one on one.
This is the best way for you to reduce the risk and uncertainty
about your nascent ideas.
You want to validate your ideas by getting information from many sources.
Of course, you want to start with customers.
Customers are the most important.
All the potential customers you think your use cases are going to address,
industry experts across the board, and then potential suppliers,
and manufacturers--
all of them will have different perspectives on your business concept,
and you want to solicit all of those to help you validate
what you have now thought about.
In many ways, this interview process that you need to undertake
is very similar to what we did in crowdsourcing earlier.
In crowdsourcing, we do two things.
We develop a benchmark by experts that help us evaluate
the concepts that are being generated.
And often, we will use the crowd to also help select the best concepts as well.
So this process of interviewing people, interviewing customers, experts,
suppliers, and manufacturers is akin to what we do in crowdsourcing.
The crowd of people you will be interviewing
will help you both generate the benchmark, refine the benchmark,
but also help you select amongst the concepts you have
and also refine the concepts that you have.