WARREN KATZ: What I tell all of my founders who come to my program who--
I guess-- technically have raised some money by coming into Techstars
and giving up some small amount of equity, I tell them this--
I say, you have 100% of your own brain.
That's all you have.
You don't have any more.
Any percentage of your brain that you dedicate
to finding investors, pitching investors, selling investors, closing
deals, and then managing investors after the fact is a percentage of your brain
you can no longer use for understanding your marketplace,
understanding your product, perfecting your product--
essentially, advancing your product to the customers who
are paying you for the product.
So I give I'm going to choice.
You can either dedicate your mental capacity
to selling chunks of equity in your company to investors.
Or dedicate that same mental capacity to selling your products
to your customers.
Which do you prefer?
And it really is an AB decision.
Some companies cannot avoid raising money because they have a product that
they're making-- a hardware product or something--
that simply requires a very large amount of capital to make the the MVP.
But in every other case--
MVP meaning minimally viable product--
in every other case, if a company can possibly reach minimally viable product
without taking money from an investor, I strongly encourage them to do so.
I also strongly encourage them to find those customers who
are willing to pay in advance for some access
to a brand new product or some discount on the product in the long run,
if they are willing to share some of the risk and partner with a company
by paying them in advance.
This is where the Department of Defense is
fabulous at providing a lot of advance capital to small businesses
to advance their product, to prototype their product without taking
any equity.
And in my program, I'm an extremely strong advocate
of all of my company's bidding and winning government small business
contracts, especially the SBIR program.
And using that capital to replace their seed round.
And to develop their MVP on non-dilutive government contract money.
Again, this comes down to finding a few key customers that
will say, wow, my pain point is so high that I'm
willing to take a risk on this little nascent product and this little nascent
company by offering them a purchase order
to buy the thing if it meets these certain performance criteria,
performance requirements.
If you get enough of those, that indicates that where there's smoke,
there's fire.
If enough of these customers confess their pain point in the form
of a purchase order-- an advanced purchase order, pay in advance--
this is a strong indication that there is demand out there.
And one can parlay this into some level of company that can be successful.
So that's the best indicator-- if somebody
is willing to pull cash out of their pocket
and pay in advance of the product being done.