KARIM LAKHANI: Now, let's apply the business architecture framework
of value creation, value capture for a business model,
and the operating model of the structure, capabilities, and assets
you have to a fun example.
One of the privileges of being a professor
is that I get to travel around the world to meet with various companies,
to give talks at various universities, and to write cases
on exotic companies around the world.
And I get to travel some of the best places in the world.
I've been to Istanbul.
I've been to Kuala Lumpur and so on.
And one of my fun activities to get to know a particular culture
is to participate in eating street food.
I love street food of all types.
So I've had fish on the banks of the river in Istanbul.
I've had great food in Singapore, great food in Kuala Lumpur, great food in LA,
Santiago, Johannesburg.
It's incredible.
So I've been very privileged to be able to experience culture this way.
And one of my favorite street foods is Mexican tacos.
I just love tacos.
Nice, spicy tacos just make my day.
And I've met amazing people through engaging in and eating street foods
in the various cities that I go to.
So what I'd like us to do is to take this example of street foods
and imagine creating a business architecture around street
foods, and in particular, on tacos.
So let's imagine, one day, you woke up, and you have now
inherited a taco truck.
[BEEPING]
And your family's saying, hey, let's go create a business architecture
around a taco truck.
So what I'd like you to do first is to think about value creation.
What are all the ways in which you will create
value that will drive customers to come and transact with you for a taco truck?
As you've noticed, I am a big believer in crowds.
I study crowds.
I get crowds engaged in a lot of interesting problem solving.
So for this particular challenge, I went to my lab and the crowd in my lab.
And I said, hey, labmates, help me out in coming up with various value
creation options for a taco truck.
Here's what my labmates came up with.
It's a lot of fun.
So the first one they said is, well, you could have a Mexican taco,
but you could also do differentiation based on fusion tacos.
You could have Tex-Mex tacos.
You could have Greek-Mex tacos.
You could have Korean-Mex tacos--
all these different ways in which you could create differentiation for tacos.
You could also differentiate based on the variety of drinks you have
and the variety of sides you have.
So that was one aspect of differentiation.
Other people said, why don't you start a white-glove service for tacos?
So when you come into the taco truck, it's not just a taco truck.
It could be taco bus.
And there's is a maitre d' there.
That's fine tequila there for you, fine wine for you, fine drinks for you.
Right?
And there would be table side service for tacos.
Some people may go for that.
Additionally, you could imagine that you're not only
just going to provide tacos, but you're going
to provide the entire cultural experience of being in Mexico--
so mariachi band, the crazy wrestlers, you name it.
You would get to experience that as part of the taco truck
that you come up with.
You could even go further.
You could say, well, not only are people coming to me for the tacos,
but they may have some interest in Mexico.
So why don't I offer trip advice and tips to do things in Mexico?
Or you could even build a direct network effect business
from this, where you attract people that love tacos and want
to meet other people that love tacos.
And then you can then create a whole lot of value
for all the taco lovers in a particular city.
So as you can see, just a little bit of creativity around value creation
opens up a range of optionality for you for a simple taco truck.
Now, let's apply this same perspective on value capture.
So the first thing you can do for tacos--
you can make sure that you price it in a way so that you make up for your cost.
So you can charge a price greater than the cost you have, and you
can charge per taco to your customers.
You could also imagine a subscription service
for tacos, where you charge dollars per month.
And then, you can have an all-you-can-eat option.
Or you could limit the number of tacos per month
that a customer could get access to by having a subscription service.
You could do a freemium model, kind of like what Spotify does.
You can listen to music for free, or you can pay extra money
and get more personalized recommendations from Spotify.
In this case, you can imagine, you say, my freemium model
is I'm going to offer tortilla and beans for free,
but the sauce, the extra ingredients, like meat and fish and vegetables,
will be extra charges.
Me, I would definitely pay extra for the jalapenos, because I love spicy tacos.
Finally, you can imagine a very different
though capture strategy, which is you could convince the Mexican tourism
authorities or the various city or regional based tourism authorities
to sponsor free tacos in return for advertising, right?
You could say to them that I will attract potential tourists who
want to go to your particular town, your particular region,
your particular activity, your particular resort in return
for giving them free tacos.
You will make money on the advertising.
Customers will show up for free tacos.
And then these customers will eventually end up going to Mexico for tourism.
Again, lots of creativity in thinking through value
capture strategies for a taco truck.