NOUBAR AFEYAN: So in Moderna's case, talking about emergence,
we understood by following the various scientific advances that people
were playing around with converting fibroblast cells into what's
called induced pluripotent stem cells.
Somebody won a Nobel Prize recently for this.
These are called Yamanaka Factor.
So it turns out that if you take differentiated cells and you introduce
a couple...few different proteins-- four of them specifically--
these cells can dedifferentiate and look like what came before them, stem cells.
They're not normal stem cells but they're close to being stem cells.
And so why do that?
Because then you could differentiate it and make other cells.
So that was the general field.
And in that field, there had been some people, particularly at UPenn and then
more recently at Children's Hospital here in Boston,
who'd been playing around with using what's called mRNA, messenger RNA,
to use these to go into cells and express these proteins.
Why had they done that?
Because it turns out the mRNA they could actually
get a better transformation of these cells.
And so we were aware of this work, and we started asking what if questions.
KARIM LAKHANI: So your team is reading scientific papers, it's in the air.
NOUBAR AFEYAN: In this case, yeah, exactly.
And we do this all the time.
So basically we're--
KARIM LAKHANI: You're in the midst of this flow of knowledge--
NOUBAR AFEYAN: Exactly.
It's not about reading papers for us, as much as just--
I mean, we are talking to lots of people about lots of different things.
And then somebody says, hey, by the way, I just saw this data about that.
And then we actually read papers in hindsight.
In other words we read papers once we have an idea of what to do,
as opposed to read papers to get an idea per se.
Because the signal to noise in papers is gigantic.
If you sit there and read 1,000 papers and that
gives you three ideas, hard to do anything else.
I'm sure that can be done too, but that's not the way we approach it.
Anyway, so long story short, we started wondering for lots of reasons
that I can't almost reproduce because you'd have to go back to 2010
in the summer, and whatever else was being thought of at the time.
So I understand by that time, we had about 20 people
that were doing this type of activity in various combinations for a living.
And so it's important because these ideas get mixed and moved around.
This is not a--
one person thinking deeply is not going to get there.
So we started asking, can you think about--
we said, why is there no drug that is based on mRNA?
Now, if you go back 10 years, drugs were made out
of proteins and small molecules.
There had been an effort to use viruses to introduce genes
into the body called gene therapy, and a person had died early on
and that whole field was shut down.
And there really was no other variation to proteins and small molecules.
And there had been some efforts to try to make--
not to get too detailed but--
other small DNA, RNA molecules, antisense is what it's called.
And we were aware of all this, but we're saying,
why don't people actually use this microRNA molecule?
And that's just a thought experiment, and you can go and answer
that question.
KARIM LAKHANI: So you raised the problem?
NOUBAR AFEYAN: You raise a what if problem.
Initially, we don't start with we need to cure melanoma.
We don't start the problem what good is this mRNA that
can transform cells because it's not good for anything other than that.
But we just kind of abstracted it and said,
is there a combination of a solution and a problem
that we can identify simultaneously around this space?
And if there isn't one, then we move on.
And in this case, that's part of our methodology.
In this case, what we concluded was that people had tried and failed
10 years earlier.
We understood why they tried and fail.
We realized that there was no obvious fix to it,
but there was a directional fix in that you could modify chemically
some of these RNA molecules.
And they at least hinted that if you kept
doing that there may be better ways.
We had no proof.
There was no academic literature that said this can be done.
We could have waited for that, but we probably
would've been 5, 6 years because now there is academic papers from which we
could have started companies.
But our whole thing is to almost mine this science of the future
to try to solve problems of today, versus mine the science of today
to solve problems of the future.
And that is exactly backwards.
And it's not any better.
It's just that you look at the world differently.
So publications give you evidence for what you want to do,
but that's not why they published those things.
They were thinking of a very different thing, do you know what I'm saying?
So in that regard, that's a little bit-- so in Moderna's case we identified--
a very integral part of what we do is that we don't do this in a vacuum.
So we go out and talk to people about our hypotheses.
These are not--
KARIM LAKHANI: You're not afraid of people taking your idea?
NOUBAR AFEYAN: No, and I'll tell you why.
In order to try to create an evolution-- so
we're trying to create an evolutionary environment.
How do you do that?
The scientific method uses hypotheses and experimentation.
So we actually do the same thing.
We create value hypothesis.
We basically say, I will take an mRNA molecule formulated with this agent,
stick it into muscle, use muscle to--
none of it is true.
None of it's been done before.
But it's just a starting point.
We then go with that to a handful of folks that are both experts
and non-experts in the field.
Super important thing if you're going to practice this kind of work
is that experts actually are not the people who
are going to give you an idea of how to do things dramatically differently.
Because they became experts by already doing something
dramatically differently, and now they're defending their territory.
So if you go to talk to somebody and say, can this be done out here?
Most people we talk to, they can tell you precisely why it can't be done,
which is really valuable from a selection pressure
standpoint, but not the source of and here is a completely different way.
So other people who don't have expertise but have interesting creativity--
so what we do is we take our hypotheses-- and it's never one.
Because one of the things we've learned is
that if you start with one starting point
you only locally search the space around it.
So we sample multiple different points.
So it might be how about mRNA as a way to make more proteins in a fermenter?
So around the theme we come up with totally different value poles
we try to identify.
And then, we put a starting point and then we start talking.
And what's been interesting and a great learning exercise over the years
that we've seen is that if you go to somebody with a bad idea,
but you actually present it in a precise way,
they will tell you why it's a bad idea.
And in that transaction, something happens.
They feel smarter and you get selection pressure.
And so the way our process works is that we actually
do this with multiple people.
So when you said, aren't you afraid they're going to take your idea?
What are they thinking?
We just made it up.
There is zero fact to it.
Literally zero fact.
KARIM LAKHANI: Just imagining a hypothesis.
NOUBAR AFEYAN: Exactly.
We're just a hypothesis, and they know it.
Because then they tell us, what proof do you have?
We say none.
So then they still engage because it's a almost--
when we talk to these folks, and this is what we're known for, we create a bit
of an expert free zone in the sense that you're--
see look, these scientists-- here we are at Harvard and MIT, Stanford.
These people go to the meetings of their fields and they cannot say something
that does not seem unbelievably smart and reasonable.
Actually, I'll make the point.
Let me caveat.
Reasonableness, in my view, is like the gravitational force
that keeps innovation from happening.
Because people enforce reasonableness in the scientific world
on what you are allowed to say.
You go publish something in literature that's not reasonable to the reviewers,
you can't--
KARIM LAKHANI: You get killed.
I've done a whole study on that.
NOUBAR AFEYAN: So ask yourself the question.
Why is it that we think that the only innovations worth working on
start their life reasonably?
In fact, I could show you many innovations
that are now accepted as real, transformative things.
Every one of them started life unreasonably.
And yet, we go look for them in reasonable places
by reasonable people who are using reasonableness filters to kill them.
So because we knew that-- this was not the first thing I had done--
we said, look, let's forget reasonableness for a second.
Just think with us.
And they tell us, bad idea, somebody in Japan had tried it,
experiment won't work.
And we keep tweaking and tweaking and tweaking.
This is different than like you hear a lot in Silicon Valley
speak in a pivoting-- this is not pivoting.
Evolution is the master pivot.
It's like nonstop pivoting.
There's nothing to pivot from and to.
You're just adapting and surviving.
So that mindset is super important.
What happens is over time things emerge, or they don't, but they emerge where
the next person you talk to goes--
they can't find fault with it.
You know that because it frustrates them.
And then they start telling you, well, do you have any proof?
And you go, no, no.
I just made this up.
It's just that we've been...
And then, that point is when we go into a lab for the first time,
and then and only then do we test the idea.
Now you can't test it fully.
You can't test it where--
because it takes years and years.
And one of the expertise we've developed over the years
is how to figure out what to test first.
And in life science you can't use these words--
killer experiment-- because life science you could kill.
But you want to do the killer experiment early.
And so figuring out what's the killer experiment or two or three or four--
that if it doesn't fail allows you to go forward?
That's the trick.
And we do that in our shops.
So in Moderna's case, we spent a couple of million dollar,
about six months, doing a set of key things
but for which we would not have proceeded.
So we knew the idea had morphed and evolved and had some resilience to it.
We went into labs and asked specific questions.
Once we saw that actually some of the things we were hypothesizing
could be done partially, we then decided,
OK, let's form the best economic value creation engine known to mankind,
which is a startup in my view.
I'm biased.
And then we deploy that startup to go after that value pool
in as many different ways as we can.