
KARIM LAKHANI: The other part of your business architecture
is your operating model.
In the operating model, you have three components,
the structure which you are coming to the market with,
the capabilities that you have to enable you to go to market,
and the assets you have that allow you to be
able to create value creation and value capture in your business model.
And the business model and the operating models need to be aligned together.
So let's go deeper in each of these three categories of structure,
capabilities, and assets.
So one way to think about the structure is, are you selling a product
or are you selling a service?
Are you a product firm or are you a service firm?
That in itself creates differentiation, gives you
choices in terms of what you're doing in the marketplace.
An emerging structure also is the platform.
So think about Facebook as a platform.
Think about the smartphone as a platform.
Think about many other products now that have attached to them a platform
component by which multiple other businesses and multiple other customers
can participate.
Think about Amazon as a platform or Alibaba as a platform.
So now the platform serves as a matchmaker instead of just
a simple product or service itself.
So the structure options are quite varied for you as well.
Then there's a question about the capabilities
you have to be able to be successful in your business model
and in your business itself.
So capabilities tend to be one around a particular specialization you
have in an industry.
In our earlier examples, we have talked about various ways in which you
might be in the power business, you might be in the biology business,
you might be in life sciences, and so forth.
And so some specific vertical industry knowledge
becomes part of your capability as well, and that actually
drives your core competence.
Your core competence may be one built around ways
of you understanding what the needs are in a particular industry, what
the needs are in a particular vertical, and also what the seeds need to be,
what the technologies need to be in order for you to be successful.
So if you're-- again, if you go back to a car company example, in this case,
you can imagine your core competency might be marketing, might be design,
might be manufacturing.
Those are all things you might need to be able to succeed in the car business.
And then, of course, you also need leadership and management.
Those elements become part of your capability stack.
Increasingly, what we're also finding is that capabilities
need to also include analytics and how you
analyze data, and artificial intelligence and machine learning,
that those elements are also part of your capability stack.
Finally, you have assets.
Assets are what you can hold onto dearly and have their own independent value
in the marketplace.
You can imagine your assets include your financial strength,
the physical footprint you have, and the intellectual property you have.
Those are all things that would drive your assets.
But assets can also include, in today's world, the data you have access to,
the social graph you've built around your product or service,
the technology you have capabilities around,
and the algorithms that drive your analytics and your machine learning.
So your operating model needs to include the structure, the capabilities,
and the assets.
And the operating model then is aligned with the business model.
And for businesses that are going to come out of this course, ideas
that we're going to try to commercialize,
you'll want to start thinking about the business model, value creation
and value capture, as well as the operating
model, the structure, the capabilities, and the assets you
have to bring into the marketplace when you look at your seeds
and needs analysis put together.
