
VISH KRISHNAN: The scientist Einstein is credited with the saying,
"We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created
them."
Let's consider the challenges that we face and the new thinking needed.
While the last several decades of relative global peace
and advancements in science and technology
have improved lifespans and standards of living around the world,
they have also spawned some additional problems.
Rising lifespans driven by innovations means increased cost of health care
and budget deficits around the world.
The internet-driven innovation has connected the planet
and shrunk the distance, but it's also resulted
in societal restlessness and anxiety.
These social networks have actually spawned some new challenges.
Innovation approaches have become too lopsided,
being either solely needs-driven or solely seeds-driven.
Either of these approaches face some gaps.
With needs-driven approaches, the problems
include customers' functional fixedness, which
leads to less than optimal results.
Seeds-driven approaches, on the other hand,
may solve only part of a customer's problem,
or it may not be well aligned with the market needs at all.
Another major problem to consider is the challenges
faced with entrepreneurship and new venture formation.
The cost of creating new business has actually gone down quite a bit.
But the data shows that entrepreneurship, new business survival
is actually not doing well in many parts of the world, including the US of A.
Consider this data from the US Census Bureau, analyzed and reported
by The Kauffman Foundation.
What it shows is that the number of new companies
as a share of all US businesses has actually dropped 44% since 1978.
This is really surprising.
By many accounts, the cost of doing business,
cost of forming new businesses actually going down due to information
technology and the internet.
It used to cost thousands of dollars to form a new venture,
and now there are reputed services in many parts of the world that
can actually help us do this--
form a company for a few hundred dollars.
Why, then, is the data showing that the share of new companies in the economy
is dropping 44% since 1978?
I think entrepreneurship and new venture formation
is actually a crucial indicator of innovation and societal growth.
And there are certain gaps, certain inefficiencies in the new venture
creation and survival processes that need
to be addressed in order to get better outcomes.
On the one hand, our universities and our national labs
spend billions of dollars in research and development
and are anxiously looking for ways to transfer these discoveries
to the private market.
However, classical technology transfer is more like passing the baton.
It has not worked so well.
I would argue it needs to look much more like a contact sport,
like American football or rugby, where the discoveries in question
are jointly developed with the marketplace
and the gains jointly shared as well.
In summary, innovation and entrepreneurship
are too hard to be passed like a baton.
Translation and co-development may actually be needed,
and it requires investment of effort and money from both the public
and the private sector, including grants like the SBIR--
the Small Business Innovation Research program.
It's been quite successful, run by the National Labs and the National Research
organizations.
During the last three, four years, I've also
been involved with a very unique program with the National Institute of Health--
NIH-- that involves meshing the unmet market
needs with the untapped technological seeds.
We've learned that balancing is hard, takes effort, but would
be the right thing to do.
