RAMANA NANDA: Yeah, I think one piece of advice that I often give,
particularly scientists and engineers and technologists,
is that it's really important to be able to get an understanding of what
the consumer is looking for.
Oftentimes, scientists and engineers build
what they think is the perfect product from their standpoint,
but it often doesn't solve a specific pain point
that the consumer is looking for.
And then they end up getting frustrated when there
isn't as much traction in the market.
And so as we think about the distinction between invention and innovation,
in my mind, what's particularly valuable about innovation
is it's taking an invention and commercializing it and making
a successful company that people out in the real world
are willing to pay money for.
And there is a big distinction between those two.
We might have a great invention that we haven't figured out
how to actually bring to market in a way that customers
are able to see the value of that invention or willing to pay for it
and that you are able to make money from it and raise capital for it.
And so I think one big piece of advice I like
to give people who are building these kinds of,
particularly, science-based companies is to think carefully
about getting customer validation early on
and being willing to tweak their product and their invention
in a way that they might not have thought of
would be perfect from a scientific standpoint,
but might still be much more valuable for what the consumers are looking for.
I think the second piece of advice I would give
is to think a lot about building a company as a sequence of investments
and experiments over time.
That turns out to be a very powerful lens
to approach both product development and financing, because it helps you focus
what you're doing at any moment on what you
need to convince the next set of people in order to be able to get money.
And so there's millions of things you could
be doing as you're building a company, and it's
hard to know what to focus your time on.
But as you think about this framework of experimentation,
when you're in the series A round of financing,
you raise that money to be able to run some experiments.
And what experiments-- what do you do with that money?
You do things that will help you convince the series B investors
that you have de-risked the company to a point that warrants you
raising series B round of financing.
And that's a much more focused and powerful ways
of kind of bringing down the set of possible things
you could be doing to a very clear set of milestones.
If you know what the series B investors are
looking for, you can then help to achieve those milestones
and run tests in your own company that will provide data that will say, look,
I have these churn rates, I have these growth rates,
I have this unit economics, these are the kinds
of things that you were looking for, and I
can demonstrate to you that I am actually doing very well at those.