
KARIM LAKHANI: The language of our course and the framework
of our course of perspectives and heuristics,
my sense is that the functional thinking enables entrepreneurs to come up
with new perspectives and new heuristics on how to solve a particular problem,
or take a technology and find different applications for it.
SAM KOGAN: Yeah, absolutely.
I will give you an example.
So one of the biggest consumer package companies in the world
was developing a new nasal filter against allergy.
It's one of the biggest companies.
They put enough resources, people, money,
and they were still struggling because they could not solve the problem if you
stop all allergens, you cannot breathe.
If you could breathe, everything goes through.
And they tried to optimize the materials and so on.
When we step aside and said, what function do you need to perform?
And it turned out that the function that you need to perform,
and solution to the problem you need to perform,
how to create a strong vortex that will throw tiny particle toward our mucus.
Naturally, when we inhale, we create this vortex,
but it's not strong enough for the tiny particles.
So we did, as we call, function-oriented search,
looking at where else people perform this function.
And you usually look at the industry where
the life and death, for the business or the person, to perform this function.
Because if it's life and death, you could be,
rest assure, that they would know everything.
And we found that in pharmaceutical industry,
they cannot throw tiny nanoparticles in the atmosphere because it will create
a lungs problem and so on.
So a small Israeli company have developed a technology
that creates additional vortexes that will
separate tiny particles in a tower, probably five feet,
or five stories tall.
And we solved the adaptation problem, rather than the invention problem.
And the reason why we could do it, not because we're smart or successful,
but because we looked at the functions, and solved adaptation problem rather
than invention.
So what entrepreneurs need to do is the same.
A, look at the technology they have.
Define the value drivers and the functions,
and look where else people need to perform similar functions
and apply it there.
So once again, I'm very excited that we will
be able to introduce this thinking to your course.
KARIM LAKHANI: Thank you very much, Dr. Sam Kogan, for joining us today,
and for giving us your insights on functional thinking.
We look forward to learning more from you.
