TIM MIANO: Another mistake a lot of start-ups make especially early on,
is the presumption that the first thing they need to do is raise money.
And that almost invariably is not the first thing a startup needs to do.
The first things they need to do are take whatever idea they've got
and get it in front of as many people as possible
that are not their grandma who--
or their friends, right.
Because you tell your friends or your grandma what
you're thinking about doing, and they're going to want to support you,
and they're going to want to tell you your idea is good.
But strangers will be much more honest, and people
in the industry that you're thinking about working with they'll
be much more honest.
And people that don't have time to invest in you will be much more honest.
So before you try to go out and raise a bunch of money
really having something of substance that you can move forward.
And then prototype, prototype, prototype.
One of the mistakes I see people making is they
feel like they need to fully bake everything
before they go show it to people, so they're
in stealth mode for six months or a year.
Huge mistake.
Always be thinking about--
there's a phrase in startup land--
MVP, minimum viable product.
And whether or not you take that idea too seriously--
at all times having some sort of benchmark, or milestone,
or goal where I'm trying to produce something that I can show people
that I can then iterate on.
And until you've iterated on that thing many,
many times you're almost certainly not ready to go take it to market.
And if you're not ready to take it to market you're not ready to raise money.
People have great ideas all the time.
The limiting factor in innovation is not good ideas.
It's people willing to put in the time to execute that idea.
So the people that say, I want to talk about my startup idea.
I don't want people to steal it.
That's just not going to happen.
You should tell everybody about your idea.
And one of the reasons you should tell everybody about your idea
is because you have no idea what other people know about the thing
that you're working on, and you have no idea who other people know.
So you tell your Aunt Sally, oh I've got this idea in this widget space
or with some chemical product or this social innovation.
And you don't know that her college roommate
is the CEO of some other company.
So telling as many people about your thing as possible
allows you to start to access those networks of people
that can contribute to whatever it is that you're working on.
Interestingly as well, one of the groups that has lower survivability rates
are people that have come from industry and they're
starting some startup that circles back into that industry.
They think they have some particular knowledge about a problem space,
and they say, now I'm going to go start a startup to tackle that problem.
Those people as well often don't access mentor and expert networks as much.
And because they are overconfident in their understanding of the market
that they're dealing with, don't end up being as successful.