CONRAD HOLLOMON: I see this a little bit similar to job
interviewing, where a lot of folks go into a job interview,
and they say to themselves, I just want the job.
I just want the job.
I just want the job.
I'll say what I need to do to get the job,
because that's the position that they're in where they need
that job to pay their rent, you know, to continue on
with what they're doing in life.
There are other folks who approach job interviews in terms of,
like, you are interviewing me, and I'm interviewing you,
and I'm trying to get a sense of whether this is the right fit for both of us
or not.
The folks who are approaching the interview
from the perspective of whether it's the right fit for both of them
are the ones who will have probably the best
experience out of the organizations that they intend to commit to.
The same is true for investment.
If you know that the investor that you're working with
is not just a piggy bank, but somebody who's going to have your back,
that's an investor you want.
That investor's a piggy bank, then they might not
be willing to pick up the phone and help you when you really need it.
They may have demands that you do not understand,
because you don't necessarily understand how they're
motivated if they're just a piggy bank.
Don't get me wrong.
There are times when you need to open the piggy bank,
and when you need to do that, you need to do that.
But if you are raising money just for the sake of raising money,
then you might want to take a step back and understand
that you are establishing a relationship with whoever you are taking money from,
and that can go a positive way, or that can go a negative way.
A good startup pitch is the right message
targeted to the right individual.
In any form of communication, there's the sender and the receiver.
The right startup pitch for one person is the completely wrong startup pitch
for another person.
And while we do emphasize you want to have that ability
to engage in the elevator pitch and really rapidly talk
about what your value proposition is and what you want to talk about,
the purpose of a pitch is not to immediately make a sale.
The purpose of the pitch is to determine whether there can even
be a relationship.
And if you go into every single pitch thinking
that you're going to make a sale right there, that you're
going to get a check written, you're setting yourself
up for a lot of disappointment.
If you go into pitching expecting, I want to get to know this person,
I want to understand them, and I want to identify ways
that we can work together for mutual interest, that's a winning pitch.
It's very important for a founder to understand
that money is not just a number that indicates
how long your business can survive.
It is not just a runway.
Money is a tool, and you need to know when you're approaching and getting
money what the purpose that you're going to use that tool for.
If you approach money in terms of, I'm going to use this to go to the bar
and talk about how much money I've raised,
that is not a good reason for raising money.
Maybe it's a good reason for impressing people there.
But it's not going to be a good reason for you to necessarily employ
that money in support of your business.
There's a couple of different pieces to that.
First, there's having a plan for the money in terms
of how you want to spend it or how you don't want to spend it
in the case of you're maybe taking on risk,
and you want to know that you have some sort of a buffer.
There's also the money aspect in terms of where
you're receiving the money from and how it's
going to affect your relationship with the people
that you are taking that money from.
I see this a lot in terms of people investing or people
accepting money for their company in return for equity,
but not necessarily understanding that, if you give this person a board seat,
they will have a direction on the way they want to take your business.
All entrepreneurs, to some degree, do not like having a boss.
That's part of what makes them entrepreneurs.
That being said, you will always have a boss,
and the longer that you can keep that boss your customer
and not somebody who's in between you and your customer,
the happier as an entrepreneur you'll be.