[MUSIC PLAYING]
VISH KRISHNAN: We now focus on accelerated innovation with better seed
selection and needs identification.
After all, innovation is about meeting unmet needs with compelling science
and technology seeds.
Our interest here is really helping innovators, entrepreneurs
improve their odds of success by making innovation processes
more streamlined, more balanced, just more sensible,
what we are calling accelerated innovation.
We are building on the discussion of methods, perspectives, and frameworks
to generate better seeds.
Let's start with this question.
What are the reasons more innovation projects and ventures have not
succeeded or are not meeting expectations?
After all, the startup success rate is estimated
to be in the single-digits percentage or low double-digits percentage
depending on the area.
Why is innovation so hard?
There are a number of reasons.
At its core, innovation is about effecting change, fundamental change,
to current products, processes, and methods.
Change is hard.
Established technologies and products can be deeply entrenched in many areas.
Customers may just be happy with them and not actively seeking change.
In addition, incumbent companies can make it difficult for change to happen.
All in all, innovation can often be received by markets and industries
the same way our bodies receive and respond to foreign organisms
with an antibody-driven, adverse reaction.
In order to succeed against these odds, new innovations
must offer an order of magnitude advantage in terms of benefits--
performance, or convenience, or ease of use, or just much lower cost.
It would be nice to start with compelling seeds,
breakthrough discoveries that unleash totally new capabilities, like gene
editing or 3D printing, for that matter.
However, we also need to be patient as it takes time, sometimes
decades, for technologies to mature.
3D printing, for example, was invented and developed
in the late 1980s and even the early 1990s when
I was a graduate student at MIT.
It was exciting to see this technology crawl and walk out of the labs.
But it took a long, long time, a very long process of performance improvement
and cost reduction for it to become commercially ready.
Initially, just the basic idea was demonstrated
in one of the engineering labs at MIT.
And it took nearly two decades of work to turn it
into a commercially robust, market-ready system with a variety of applications.
If you were an inventor who was interested in commercializing
technology and were considering 3D printing in the late 1980s,
you better have been patient, and so must your investors be,
or you should work on other more advanced or mature technology.
There are several innovators who tried to create new products and ventures
using the 3D printing technology but had to fall down
because they were too early.
So while breakthrough technologies offered tremendous potential,
they might take a lot of time and resources to realize this potential.
Sometimes we get excited about a breakthrough's potential.
This includes innovators and investors, not just the inventors,
who then get disillusioned by the time taken for the technology
to develop, and mature, and really bear fruits.
Too much investment and energy chases breakthroughs, often
to be disappointed because of the time taken for it to mature.
This has happened in various areas like solar energy,
to battery technology, and even health sciences
technologies like gene therapy.
The art and science of translating such technologies,
moving them from lab to market to create new socially and economically
beneficial products and ventures, is to know
when to start working on these technological seeds
and what market applications to tackle.
This is what we aim to learn here.
We'll discuss how to consider and how to integrate technology, market,
commercial, and team characteristics.
[MUSIC PLAYING]