VISH KRISHNAN: To improve the success odds of breakthrough technology-driven
ventures, we must start with compelling, promising technological seeds.
We quickly review a classic technology maturity framework, initially developed
by NASA called technology readiness levels, or TRL.
We also discuss adaptations to the present day
and to different industries going beyond the defense industry.
So while the detail and specific application of this framework
may vary across industries, the general thought process of understanding
and discerning technology maturity and readiness is actually quite powerful.
Let's consider the process of translating and commercializing
a breakthrough technology.
The technology might be sourced from your own venture or R&D labs,
or from a university or government R&D lab that you have close access to.
Most research universities and defense research labs
have a technology licensing office that you
could visit in person or on the web, which
lists a large number of inventions that they wanted to commercialize.
Universities like Harvard or MIT, Stanford,
and the University of California invest significant resources--
billions of dollars--
in research and produce patented breakthrough discoveries,
which they are eager to turn into socially and economically beneficial
products and ventures.
The defense research labs in general, and the Air Force Research
Labs in particular, are a good source of technological seeds.
They're usually a treasure house of technological seeds, in fact.
In addition, they may also support small businesses
interested in commercializing their technologies by offering
technical guidance and sometimes even funding in the form of Small Business
Innovation Research grants, or SBIR grants.
As you may remember, the ubiquitous GPS started as a military technology
commercialized by private sector companies, which
have now put them in wearable devices and some years ago in smartphones.
Similarly, the roots of the LASIK corrective eye surgery
can be traced directly back to the Air Force Small Business Innovation
Research program.
So these programs are definitely worth considering.
University and defense research labs and technology licensing offices
are good sources of new technologies.
But innovators also need to develop the ability to assess, kick the tires,
and select the right technologies which are a good fit for them.
Often, you, the innovator, individual or team or venture,
are passionate about a certain area, like clean energy or health care.
Your organization might have strategic thrusts as well.
This gives a reasonable starting point and what
kind of technologies you would consider.
Yet, the selection of technologies to source from research labs
can be very daunting.
The search has been likened to finding the proverbial needle in a haystack.
Luckily, improved search technologies and efforts by these research labs
to better describe these technologies is helping the search,
but it still takes work.
The innovator needs to understand the technology, its benefits, and most
importantly, its maturity or readiness.
Here is where the Technology Readiness Level framework, originally developed
by NASA, can come handy.