RANA EL KALIOUBY: Hmm, what is innovation?
TIM MIANO: I think innovation, right now, is
a burgeoning piece of the economy that has to do with taking
the technologies and the tools and the learnings of the last 20 years,
and trying to put them into practice.
RANA EL KALIOUBY: I think it's seeing a version of the world that doesn't exist yet, and then painting
a picture of what this looks like for the rest of the world.
Then you have people aligned behind you, and you can all move towards that vision.
RAMANA NANDA: I think of innovation as taking an invention and commercializing it, making it into a product
or company that is creating some value for society,
where people are actually paying for it.
DAVID MILLER: I think innovation is a combination of two things.
One thing is, it's something new.
It's something that hasn't been done before, right?
It's unique.
It's different.
It's original.
And two is, is it's useful.
WARREN KATZ: Innovation is the activity whereby new products,
technologies, ideas, techniques are generated,
which sometimes displace or destroy older established practices or products.
KARIM LAKHANI: From my point of view, innovation means problem-solving -- taking on an activity, finding a
problem, and then going about solving them.
PETER BARRETT: Innovation, to me, is looking at really creative approaches to difficult problems, and looking
at them in different ways that others haven't done before.
WARREN KATZ: Innovation happens usually with a person who is emotionally distraught regarding current
scenario or situation.
This could be a user of a product, or user of a technique, or a user of a practice that
doesn't like the way they're currently involved in the ecosystem.
They don't like the current technique or method for doing something, and they want to fix
it or change it or improve upon it.
TIM MIANO: Innovation happens in a lot of ways.
In the university context, you've got students that have really good ideas, and they want
to see those ideas exist in the real world.
And there is a process around thinking through problems, problem spaces, and solution spaces,
and making that connection, and building something that is able to take some observed problem
and connect that to some real world solution.
CONRAD HOLLOMON: Is a soup kitchen who finds a better way
to distribute food to the local population?
That's an innovation.
And somebody who creates a social enterprise that finds a way to generate a revenue model
aligned with that social impact...that's innovation too.
I think it's important to appreciate how in all these different contexts
innovation is taking place.
PETER BARRETT: And what we are constantly looking for is new approaches to either halt the progression
or to actually improve the condition of Alzheimer's patients.
And to do that, we need to look at new approaches from a biological standpoint, or new approaches
from a modality, that is therapeutic, that is using a different type of technology to
intervene with the disease.
VISH KRISHNAN: So it's a new way of doing things, but still problem solving.
And that's what makes it different from invention, which may not have a problem to solve as its
fundamental goal.
RAMANA NANDA: For me, innovation is defined as being different from invention, precisely because you have
taken that invention and commercialized it into a company or a product that people are
willing to pay money for to use, that they find valuable, not just you.
SHREYA DAVE: We use 12% of all U.S. energy consumption separating different chemical components from one another
in the manufacturing sector.
So this could be everything from fertilizer to plastic bags to medical devices.
And the amount of energy is equivalent to all the gasoline used in all the cars and
trucks in the United States every year.
So the magnitude is enormous.
It's in all these different sectors.
And that paper said, well, you know, if only we had better membranes, we could start solving
this energy challenge.
We could reduce the energy used for this by 90%.
And they said, well, you know, if only we had better membranes, and we have an over-engineered
membrane over here.
Is there a good fit?
KARIM LAKHANI: Sometimes, you solve big problems, which are things like inventing quantum computing, but
actually bringing them to market, or inventing the next generation of mobile phones, or the
iPhone, and bring it to market.
That's, you know, breakthrough innovations.
Or it could actually be something simpler, which is improving your factory process flows.
WARREN KATZ: It always comes back to a person who wants to fix, change, improve, modify,
disrupt a current ecosystem.
CONRAD HOLLOMON: I think that innovation comes down to
wanting to do something just a little bit better.
[MUSIC PLAYING]