
IRWIN JACOBS: So we came up with another innovative idea.
We approached the operator, said, here's our problem.
They said well, we can help a little bit but only so much.
But they could recommend to the manufacturers
that the manufacturers work with us to see if we can
make CDMA a real commercial product.
And so we were able to then come up with the idea,
well, perhaps we'll license a manufacturer
to have all the rights to our patents in the future for an upfront fee
and a royalty per device if in, fact, this ever does become commercial.
And so we negotiated originally with AT&T. This
was before they had spun out Lucent.
And so all the Bell Labs, and the operations
of the telephone business and the manufacturing
were all in one company at the point.
So we negotiated a contract back and forth with them.
And then moved on to other companies.
We had Motorola, Nokia.
And so that gave us funding from the upfront fees
to continue to develop the chips.

In two years, we developed all the chips we needed.
We invited everybody back again to see that, in fact, we now
had a commercial-sized phone and commercial-sized infrastructure.
We could go out and have large numbers of these devices
on a whole bunch of vans driving around, and measure
the capacity in the real world.
And indeed, we were getting a significant improvement.
The operators, some were still skeptical.
Some were convinced.
They said we have to have a trial between the TDMA, which
was presumably commercial at that point, and the CDMA technology.
And so they set up--
they asked us all to run trials bringing audio and video recordings of what
had happened.
And they'd have a meeting in Dallas, actually,
in December of '91 to talk about--
to see which seemed better commercially.
Well, the TDMA people brought in their recordings.
They were up first.
It sounded terrible.
We had been very careful not to cheat at all,
but to make very good audio recordings, to go through and get hand-offs
occurring, to be able to see the multi-path, the quality of the signals,
and to have audio recordings of both ends.
And what CDMA, it sounded wonderful.
So that won some more converts.
As a result, the industry in January said--
January of '92-- said well, OK, we will now set up a competition
because somebody else might have some good what they called
wideband ideas versus TDMA ideas.
And so we should have a competition, which went on for another six months.
And after that, everybody was convinced that the Qualcomm approach was the best
way.
And then we entered a standards process.
Well, standards usually take a long time.
The reason for going into a standards process
is if you want something to be built by many manufacturers around the world,
there has to be a standard so that everybody is building the same product
and that they can interact with one another.
You build a phone, I build a phone, they can both work on the cell site.
And so we went, for a year and a half, through a standards process.
And we were lucky in the sense we were prepared.
We had written a draft standard so people could start with that.
But even more importantly, many companies
had reasons why CDMA was not going to work.
And we had invited them over the previous year to come to San Diego.
We would set up an experiment to check whether their problem with CDMA
was a problem or not.
And so we had a lot of data on how CDMA did work.
And with that, we were able to complete the standards
process in a year and a half.
So in July of 1993, we completed the standard.
Then the problem was launching a commercial service.
And it turned out that the first commercial service
was launched in about October, November of 1995 in Hong Kong.
Why Hong Kong?
Well, Hong Kong had many business people who couldn't afford an office.
They were working on the street.
They were working by using cell phones.
And so it was very congested.
It's also a small area.
And so with CDMA giving a much larger capacity, it was the right thing to do.
However, we had not been able to convince any other handset manufacturer
to manufacturer a CDMA handset.
They thought the chance of it ever being successful wasn't large enough.
We had had to build the prototype handset to show it did work.
And so we went in the manufacturing business.
And so all the handsets that were being used in Hong Kong
were shipped there from San Diego.
The next market to come up was South Korea, which
was an interesting story on its own.
How do you convince a country to go with CDMA
or a new technology that's unproven?
So starting in 1991, I'd been visiting South Korea.
And the argument to encourage them to consider CDMA was the following--
that over the years, they had been trying
to break into consumer electronics.
Japan was a leader.
Japan was always a year or two ahead.
And therefore, South Korean companies could only compete on price.
And that's not the best way to be able to compete.
And so our argument was, well, Japan has gone with TDMA
because they thought that was the way the US was going.
If you go with CDMA and if it works, you'll
be able to get a head start on Japan.
And so they decided yes, they would follow along on that approach.
And, for example, at that time, Samsung and LG had almost no cellular business,
was really just about zero.
And of course now they're very large because of CDMA.
So just after starting in Hong Kong, the following year, beginning early 1996,
we were able to get phones and equipment started operating in South Korea
with two operators.
Where were the phones manufactured?
Well again, they were manufactured in San Diego and shipped to South Korea.
And so that was the way we began to build up the business.
At that point, the US operators were ready to begin
to bring up their second generation.
And some of them went with TDMA and some went with CDMA.
So there was that battle here.
But we began to get and build phones for the US market.
And finally, we began to look more broadly abroad.
And Europe unfortunately was not open to us.
The Europeans had set up a memorandum of understanding
among all the governments in Europe that they
would use only a single technology, which
they called GSM, which eventually became Global System for Mobile, or some such.
And that was a TDMA system.
And they specified the technology so that every country
would use the same technology.
And therefore, you could roam from country to country with the same phone.
With the first generation, they weren't able to do that because everybody
had a different technology.
Because of that MOU, the memorandum of understanding,
we couldn't bring CDMA into Europe.
And then the rest of Asia--
China, India, many other countries--
we were fighting with the EU.
And they were often there ahead of us.
They often had government support.
We often didn't have government support.
And so it was always a bit of an uphill battle.
It took nine years, actually, to get the Chinese government convinced
that we should be able to bring CDMA into China.
And that finally did work.
India was somewhat interesting as well.
India, when we started working there, the Ministry of Communications
had given a few licenses and they were all for GSM.
And when we came in and said, you know, CDMA perhaps offers something better,
they weren't even listening.
At that time, India had about the highest cost for cell phones
and the highest costs for airtime of any country anywhere.
And so when we found we couldn't convince the Ministry to allow
us to go with cellular, we noticed that there were two companies providing
wire line communications in India.
And they were five or six years behind filling orders for office and home use.
So we suggested to the government, perhaps
you let us provide wireless local loop, wireless phones that you
can put in an office or a home.
And we would be able to supply those very rapidly,
get rid of this five and six-year backlog.
So they allowed us to do that.
Shortly after we began, some of the people with these wireless local loops
and their phones in their offices and homes
found they could lift them, take them out, put them in their car,
and drive them around.
They had a mobile phone.
So the mobile operators sued us saying we weren't allowed to do mobile.
And that went up the Supreme Court in India a couple of times.
And finally, the Ministry gave up and allowed
us to go with CDMA to compete with the GSM.
And India went from the highest-priced phones and airtime
down to the lowest-priced phones and airtime.
You can just see the advantages of competition.
