TIM MIANO: Minimum viable product--
it can be as simple as a piece of paper explaining
what your thing is, drawings of it.
And it's not limited to people producing widgets.
There are consumer goods that are being put into the market.
Even if you're doing a social innovation where
you're trying to fix toilets in India, anything that you can produce in simple
form, that you can show people, that you can get people to comment on, something
that you can start to iterate--
just something that can help manifest a visual explanation
of what your idea is.
So in the case of my company, I partnered with a bunch of architects
and was able to produce a visual rendering of what an innovation
hub looked like.
And those little visual cues just help people
latch onto what the idea is you're trying to bring to bear.
And will allow people to access it in more direct ways.
But the important thing there is something that can be iterated upon.
Because-- the importance of iteration
is that it both provides the market with an understanding of what you're doing,
but then it also gives you a vehicle for thinking about,
how am I improving on this?
And how is it being communicated and explained
to people in a way that makes sense?
Techies, technologists, coders-- they're a bit like artists in some ways.
They build out this thing and it is actually a creative expression
of their own work.
So the more you can encourage those people
to get their thing in the hands of others and get really
unfiltered feedback on whether or not this is useful.
One thing that helps a lot is--
whether it's for techies or anything else--
as you hand people your MVP or your product or whatever it is,
have them just start speaking out loud as they are interacting
with whatever your thing is.
And really pay attention to that stream of consciousness
and do that with multiple different people, different types of people,
different ages of people because that will give you
some insight into the mindset of how people are thinking
about what it is that your thing is.
And at a fundamental level, people want things that solve their problems.
People want their pain points, their fundamental pain points, to be fixed.
And those are the big things people are willing to pay for.
Those are the things people are willing to invest their time in.
Which a lot of times people misunderstand,
even a poster hanging on a wall, that is offering you something,
but it's also a cost.
It's a mental cost to go read this thing.
It is a time cost because you're busy, you're running from one place
to the other.
And then being able to design for convenience
is something that the creator, whether it's a coder or an artist or a founder,
they have to move from a place of this is in some ways
a representation of myself and this is a thing
that I am passionate about, to being something
that is very outward focused--
I'm thinking about other people.
Fundamentally, startup life is very much an exercise in empathy.
It's very much an exercise in putting yourself
in the shoes and the mindset of others.
Because you're not merely trying to solve a problem that you have,
that might be a really great way to find a problem to solve if you say,
oh, there's this thing I deal with every day, man somebody should solve this.
And then so, I'm going to solve this, I think other people would want that.
But it's that last step--
but other people would want that.
That's the difference between something that is just your own solving a problem
or actually creating a startup or a product
or a solution that is going to help other people in the real world.