
CONRAD HOLLOMON: So the accelerator is broken up into three segments.
It takes place over the course of 12 weeks.
So basically, each month is a different area of focus.
And month one is focused all about really understanding
what product market fit means.
Talking to customers, we want every single one of our startups
to talk to at least 100 customers and knock out 100 customer
interviews because that's what it takes to really know,
hey, is this idea that I have, is this something
that somebody will exchange money for?
Is this something that's a business?
Is this something that's a hobby?
Is this something that's a dream?
What is my business?
And the only way you really understand your business
is within the context of customers.
That's why it's so important to talk to those 100 customers.
As a part of understanding that, we want to make it clear to founders that
the way that you interact with customers, the way
that you interact with potential funders,
the way that you interact with other business partners, each of those
is a separate technique.
Each of those requires different skills and different ways
of approaching the situation.
So we have an event that we call mentor office hours.
It takes place over two to three weeks.
And it is a very intensive experience.
From 9:00 to 5:00, sometimes further than that,
we introduce these entrepreneurs to each of these categories of individuals,
corporate VCs, institutional VCs, angel investors, entrepreneurs, former CTOs,
sometimes they're professors that are focused on a particular engineering
discipline, in the case of our accelerator, government stakeholders
from throughout the DOD as well as other government agencies.
And the key lesson to take away from that
is knowing how you communicate effectively
and how you communicate the value proposition of your business
to each of those individual stakeholders because it's very, very different
and how do you do that within the span of 30 minutes again and again
and again.
Because it can be very easy to fall into pattern recognition in a negative way
when you do this trying to communicate to the people
the same way every single time.
And that is not what will lead to the success of their enterprise.
What will lead to the success of their enterprise is listening, understanding
who you're speaking with, understanding what their needs are,
building that rapport, generating that empathy, and really knowing
is this the right fit?
Where does this person fit within the overall ecosystem of what we
are trying to accomplish as a business?
As a part of that, what a lot of founders find
is that they may be talking to a VC that walks in.
And then they give their pitch.
And they're like, I don't get it.
This-- I don't know why anyone would want to buy this.
I kind of think you might want to start from scratch.
You might want to go back to the drawing board.
I don't know about the dynamic between you all as founders.
I'm not quite sure if that's the right fit.
And then as you can imagine after 25 minutes
of talking to a VC telling you all this stuff,
you might be like, well, great, that's awesome.
So you start to doubt yourself a little bit.
You start to not necessarily like know is this the right thing for me.
Then you switch gears.
You talk to an angel investor.
I love this.
This is awesome.
The world really needs this.
This is absolutely fantastic.
Tell me what I can do to help make you successful.
Now you feel great.
Now you talk to a customer who's like, hmm,
so how much are you charging for this?
Yeah, I mean, I don't know how much you're making off margin.
But that really just does not-- we wouldn't be able to buy this.
I mean, it seems like an interesting idea.
I just don't know if we take the risk.
You have now gone from low to high to low within the span of an hour
and 30 minutes.
Now this takes place repeatedly every single day
over the course of two weeks.
And to any founder, any entrepreneur, this is your baby.
This is what you care about.
This is what you've spent--
you've spent so much time building this out
that to go through this emotional roller coaster can be very challenging.
And that's the real lesson that we want people to take away from this,
being able to accept that cognitive dissonance and emotional dissonance
of going from those highs to the lows to the highs in terms of how others
perceive your business and how you operate,
being able to look that cognitive dissonance in the eye.
I think that founders who are able to do that
are the ones who going to be the most successful.
They can take that and not necessarily see it
as something that's an existential threat
or opportunity to their business, but data points,
data points that will help them figure out what the right thing is to do.
That's the main lesson that we want entrepreneurs to take out of month one.
For month two, they'll have completed these 100 customer interviews.
They'll have taken the time to build relationships
with all these angel investors and VCs and potential customers.
And now they can take that information and act on it.
Now they can start to figure out, OK, so knowing that,
how do I develop a product roadmap?
If I already have a product roadmap, what direction
do I want to take with it now that I have this additional information?
How do we want to represent ourselves?
How do we want to represent our brand?
It's everything from marketing and branding
and that side to a little more of the practical side for the CTO types.
In our case, we're looking at design for manufacturing.
We're looking at how to help them build out their supply chain,
how to do logistics planning, that sort of thing.
On the other side, we also work with those founders
who now have capital to maybe start doing their first hires
or to start building out their teams to show them, OK, so this is how you hire.
This is ways that you can use to vet and interview
people who are the right leaders.
Because at this stage, everybody that you hire is a leader.
Whether they realize that and you realize
that is something else completely.
But everybody that you're hiring at this early stage is a seed for the culture
that your company will become.
So you're not just hiring a hammer to hit a nail.
You're hiring somebody who is going to be a future leader in your organization
even if you see them as an individual contributor.
So those are the main lessons that we want people to take out of month two,
like you're consolidating all this information that you got,
but now you're learning how to execute on it
in a way that's going to make your business successful.
Month three is all about how to communicate your business to a wider
audience.
It's all about how you pitch to VCs, to angel investors, how you get out there
in front of everybody and you be the face of your brand
and you be the face of your business.
It's all about how you put yourself in front of everybody
and represent your business as a leader.
That's everything from executive communication and executive
presentation to how to effectively convey your value
proposition in one-on-one meetings.
Everything there is geared towards preparing you towards demo day.
Demo day is the culminating event in Techstars
where we bring in everybody that you talk to plus a whole lot
more to a large event where you are pitching
in front of millions and millions of dollars worth of capital,
as well as potential customers that may be worth more.
And it's very much like a--
it's very much a show.
It's very much a community event.
But we need CEOs to be developed into the folks who
can stand in front of a stage and be who they need to be for that show.
