
SHREYA DAVE: I did my PhD in mechanical engineering,
but I was doing research in a material science lab.
And that actually really allowed me to do a lot of different interdisciplinary
things.
I was working with a lot of material scientists,
so I had a different perspective on things.
I learned a lot about chemistry.
I really hadn't taken chemistry since I was a freshman in college,
and so I had a really wonderful learning experience as a PhD student.
We were focusing on developing membrane materials for water desalination.
So the vision was to reduce the cost of water desalination
so that we could get fresh water to more places in the world more economically.
And we were going to do that by changing the way
materials were used for the membrane-- for the actual filter that
takes the salt out of the water.
We developed a membrane, we kind of looked at things
from how we could scale things up in the future
so that we could look at costs and things like that,
and then we looked at the impact that the membrane performance
would have on cost.
And that's when it started to get a little confusing, because it turns out
that there wasn't a lot of impact.
And so we had solved a problem that nobody really had.
So as I mentioned, I defended my PhD saying that this was a cool research
idea, we were not going to be commercializing it,
thank you very much for my PhD, I'm going
to go spend three months at the beach.
And eventually read a paper--
not eventually, that week-- read a paper about chemical separations
and how we use 12% of all US energy consumption
separating different chemical components from one another
in the manufacturing sector.
So this could be everything from fertilizer
to plastic bags to medical devices.
And the amount of energy is equivalent to all the gasoline
used in all the cars and trucks in the United States every year.
So the magnitude is enormous, it's in all these different sectors,
and that paper said, well if only we had better membranes,
we could start solving this energy challenge.
We can reduce the energy used for this by 90%.
And we said, well, if only we had better membranes
and we have a overengineered membrane over here, is there a good fit?
And spent that summer not at the beach, but instead talking
to customers across about 15 different verticals
and deciding that there was a good fit, that there was a product market there,
and that we were onto something and to go back to the lab
and work on the technology.
So that that's what we did, and then we started this company kind
of towards the end of that year.
