
RAMANA NANDA: So as we think about different sources of capital,
it's important to remember that money's not just money.
Who you get the money from is really important.
And it's important for a few different reasons.
The first has to do with the type of capital you get.
So you could think about non-dilutive capital,
which is either debt or grant money.
Those are sources of capital where you don't sell equity in return
for the cash, which is why it's called non-dilutive.
And then you have other sources of capital
where you do sell equity in return for cash.
And those you give away a portion of the company when you do that.
And that is why it's called dilutive capital.
So turning first to dilutive sources of capital, in many instances,
it's worth understanding why we have to turn
to VCs and other dilutive sources of capital in the first place.
If you don't have access to grant money and you put yourself
in the shoes of a bank, the bank is looking at this really risky startup
that has a very high probability of failing, just
to give you a sense of these failure probabilities, even within venture
capital backed companies.
So these are companies that received venture capital.
And note that VCs back about 0.5% of all startups that
are founded in any given year.
So if there is something like 500,000 firms that
are born each year in the United States, about 1,000 receive venture capital.
OK, so even among this very, very tiny select group of firms, 60% of them
fail.
And so you could think of this from the perspective of a bank.
And they're looking at your company.
And they're saying, this is an incredibly risky technology.
We don't know if it's going to work.
We don't know if the market will actually
bear, whether people will pay for this product,
whether it can make a lot of money.
And the way in which a bank makes money is that they give you some capital.
They hope for you to pay back the principal.
And they get a teeny tiny little bit of interest on top of it.
Teeny tiny, in a relative sense, of course.
And the important thing to note is that no matter how
successful or unsuccessful the business is, the best thing that they can do
is to get their principal plus that interest back.
So they are not getting any benefit from this technology succeeding.
But they face a lot of downside risk, which is that you might take the money.
You might fail, and then not give them back the principal.
OK, so from the perspective of a bank, they're
going to focus on very safe businesses, those
that they perceive have enough ability to pay back the principal based
on the cash flows of a business.
And so they're not going to be willing to give money
to a company that doesn't have profits and cash flows let alone revenues.
OK, so that's why those sorts of capital are just
not feasible for very early stage companies.
Why will equity investors be willing to give capital?
The reason is that they share the risk with you proportionately.
So if I give you some money and I take 50% off your company's equity,
it means that if you are unsuccessful, of course I lose my money.
But if you end up with $1 billion, I get $500 million of those.
And so because I get to share in the upside,
I'm willing to take more risk on the downside.
OK.
So that's the first step, why do we--
But on the other hand, you give away because no one else
is willing to give you capital.
You give away a lot, because it's very risky
and these investors are taking a lot of risk.
So they will want a lot of return in exchange for that risk.
