IRWIN JACOBS: And so we're in a position where we're
manufacturing some infrastructure.
We're manufacturing phones and bringing up other manufacturers,
because we want it to be a worldwide approach.
We are also making the chips, and that caused
a problem in that other manufacturers, Samsung and LG and others,
were suddenly beginning to finally get to manufacturing CDMA phones.
And they said, well, how do we know that you're
going to give us the chips and software early at the same time
that you give them to your own manufacturing?
And no matter what we said, they didn't really believe us.
So we realized that strategically, we really
should sell the handset business and the infrastructure business
and focus on chips and on software that went with the chips
and on moving the technology that much faster.
And so Qualcomm evolved a business plan that was somewhat unique
and is still somewhat unique of selling the chips to many manufacturers
around the world and providing them with software, tools and software
and education, and also having a licensing business
where we did get a small return on every phone that was sold.
And so that's the business model that Qualcomm has really
followed ever since.
And it has allowed us to move the technology very rapidly,
because we are very focused.
The company has been very focused on new technology,
what more can be done with technology, and then once you come up with ideas,
how do you get that into the hands of the other manufacturers rapidly?
Well, we can do that by putting the chips in software
and selling those broadly, and so that turned out to be a very useful model.
It's what's called a horizontal model.
One company doesn't do everything.
One company does certain parts of the business, makes the phones
but do not make the chips.
And before Qualcomm had started this approach,
there were a few vertical companies.
They did everything.
Nokia and Ericsson, Motorola, but as a result, very few manufacturers.
And so we changed the whole industrial model
of how you go through cellular situation.
One had then a business model where we developed technology, came up
with new ideas, expanded, by the way, the number of patents
that we had in many areas.
And also then, license the technology as broadly
as we could so there would be many manufacturers.
This horizontal business model was working very, very well.
And so what might one do?
Well, first of all there's Moore's Law, which says that every two years
roughly-- it is not a law but was an observation--
every two years you can about double the number
of transistors that are on a chip and therefore add capability.
So whatever capability you have this year,
you have twice as much possibility two years later.
And so our approach was to put as much as possible, on each chip.
Let's call it a system on a chip, rather than having
multiple chips, because that uses less energy and less space.
You can have smaller devices.
And so some of the competitors didn't follow that approach
and eventually went out of business.
But we were very much taking advantage of Moore's Law.
And then there's new capabilities.
There was a problem that was identified as cell phones became more
popular with emergency calls, E911.
When people dialed 911 from a wire line phone,
the operator knew where the phone was located,
could send emergency vehicles there.
But with a cell phone they couldn't, and sometimes the person
might not know where they were.
And so we had to provide information on location.
Now, every other manufacturer, all the GSM manufacturers, for example,
and TDMA manufacturers, went to an approach
using the location with respect to cell sites, triangulation,
time delay, and the measurements to locate
where the phone was placing the call.
That works but not very well.
They couldn't really get an accurate determination.
From the beginning, we developed using GPS, Global Positioning System,
putting that on the same chip and allowing us to get very good location
information, and we actually came up with an enhancement which
made use of some of the communication signal coming over the cellular network
that provided some time, it provided frequency,
and could provide some location coordinates
on where the satellites were that we're trying to identify and use
for position location.
And so we pursued that.
Everybody scoffed a bit-- as they had scoffed originally at CDMA--
scoffed a bit that that's too expensive.
And for example, China is never going to let phones
in that require a US military system for its position location,
and so they didn't follow that path initially.
Now of course, everybody uses GPS.
So that was a step ahead.
And then there's other issues.
We began probably around 2000 to think very seriously
about how do you put a camera on the phone,
make good use of the phone to support a camera capability?
And of course, you go around and just talk with potential customers,
you talk with operators, and everybody's response
was, why would I ever want a camera on my phone?
But you knew if you could do it right, that it should be,
in fact, a very attractive capability.
And so we pursued it, and of course, now perhaps that's
the most attractive aspect of a cell phone.
And so we continue to look for different areas that
allow us to provide more and more capability on the phone,
taking advantage of Moore's Law, and make
that phone more and more attractive.
And that allowed the market to grow exponentially for many, many years.
Very exciting period.
VISH KRISHNAN: Fascinating history.
I mean, so much happened in the company and in the industry
during that period of time.
You just can't imagine the pace and the amount of accomplishment there.
And you make a number of points there including when customers said,
why would I want a camera on the phone?
And today, almost everybody requires that.
They wouldn't buy a phone without a camera for obvious reasons.
So this is sometimes called the functional fixedness,
that customers don't know what they want.
They might immediately say something that's
counter to what they actually may need in the future.
So that's a very good point.