KARIM LAKHANI: Now let's focus on the operating model for the taco truck
enterprise you're going to build.
Recall the operating model has three elements--
the structure, the capabilities, and assets.
So my labmates were equally as creative with the operating model
as they were with the business model.
For structure, they came up with the ideas of, well, let's start
with a single truck business.
You have a single truck, and you move from location to location.
Others said, why don't you start a franchise business?
Make it such that you can franchise your concepts, Karim's Amazing Tacos,
to different other business owners that they can then deliver the service to
for their customers.
Others said, there's a farm-to-table movement,
so why don't we start a farm to truck movement
where you are a fully vertically integrated business?
You own the farms, you own the processing of the ingredients,
you own the trucks, and you own the employees to get the tacos
in front of a particular customer.
Others said, this sounds all too complicated.
Let's just simplify.
Why don't you actually make this into a make
your own taco business, where the truck shows up,
you have all the ingredients sitting around, and then people can come in
and make their own particular taco?
Very different ways imagine a structure for your particular enterprise.
Capabilities,
well, you can have a range of capabilities to enable value delivery.
One might be your ability to create unique recipes for tacos.
The spicy Mexican, Korean, Indian mix of a taco.
That would be something amazing that you could have that nobody else could copy.
Others said, well, of course you need management experience
in how to run a taco truck, both from the fleet operations,
to the real estate, to the location finding, to the training of employees.
All of these are capabilities you need to have in order
to be able to have a successful taco truck business.
Finally, others said, you need to think about assets.
Your unique recipes are, of course, an asset.
You might have a secret taco sauce that nobody else
can copy, kind of like the McDonald's special sauce, or the Kentucky Fried
Chicken sauce, or the special Coke recipe.
So that's an asset you could have.
You would own trucks or you might be renting trucks,
so there is physical truck assets that you might be owning.
And then, of course, there's all the data
about how your customers prefer tacos, what time of day
works best for what type of tacos, and what the different market segments,
and location, and real estate segments want in terms of tacos.
Those can be all data assets that you build and provide value delivery
for your taco truck business.
So what we've done here is we've taken a simple model of a fun taco truck
example, and we've shown how entrepreneurs
can start to be creative in their business architecture,
can actually innovate on the business architecture
itself, both in terms of your business model,
value creation and value capture, but also
on the operating model, your structure, your capabilities, and your assets.
And these things come together in your ability
to enter a market successfully and win.