VISH KRISHNAN: Let's consider two approaches
to uncovering hidden customer needs to catalyze our accelerated innovation
journey.
The first is the outcome-driven approach--
outcome-driven innovation approach in which
we seek to zoom in on the outcomes that a customer aims to achieve in a more
effective and efficient manner.
The second is what I call the linkages-driven approach
that tracks the lifecycle or the journey of a customer
to uncover gaps all along the customer's so-called activity chain.
So let's start with the outcome-driven innovation
or ODI simply, an innovation approach popularized by Anthony Ulwick.
It's based on the premise that customers buy
products and services to achieve certain outcomes or to get certain jobs done.
So the goal here in this approach is to really see our product and service
offerings in the eyes of the customer, to stand in their shoes
to develop customer empathy.
"People don't want to buy a quarter-inch drill.
They want a quarter-inch hole," quipped the famous Harvard professor
Ted Levitt.
The ODI approach implores innovators to think
in terms of outcomes, quarter inch holes, not the mechanisms or tools
like drills.
ODI essentially seeks to unearth important
but poorly served outcomes in customers' lives.
So the focus here is on finding these outcomes or jobs to be done
rather than looking at other attributes like demographic profiles
and ancillary factors to design products and services.
When we are talking to customers, we try to gather
why they want certain outcomes going beyond how they currently
do their jobs.
For example, you may be interviewing a surgeon who uses catheters.
And she may say that I want a stiff, strong catheter.
But we don't stop and we push further and ask why.
Then she would say for easy maneuverability.
Now we get closer to the outcome of the customer that what the customer wants
is an easily maneuverable catheter.
Another customer, dealing with the day to day hassles of car maintenance,
specifically oil change in their car, might initially
say I want a more accessible oil plug.
But then we push further as to what outcome they're trying to achieve.
And we learn what they really want is to slash or eliminate
the burden of frequent oil changes.
So the key here is to not only understand
how the job is currently done by the customer
but also why to understand the underlying context more deeply.
Harvard professor Clay Christensen also emphasizes
this jobs-to-be-done framework in his books and articles.
As he mentions, Google was designed for the job of finding information,
not for some kind of research demographic.
So if we dig deeper on why folks use Google,
we may find that they're actually using it
to search the best airfares, or cheaper hotels,
or local cultural events, which gives us ideas for more tailored search
products.
In summary, outcome driven innovation is essentially
a needs based market segmentation approach
that goes beyond more traditional demographic market segmentation
approaches.
While eliciting these needs from customers,
we force them to go beyond current product features
and surface level benefits and articulate the deeper
outcomes that they're trying to achieve in their lives.
The premise is that current products and services do not
do a good job of understanding customer outcomes.
And an innovator has the opportunity to create
more value by unearthing and meeting these latent hidden outcomes.
While the outcome-driven approach makes some good points
about the need for digging deeper, going beyond surface level features
and benefits that customers are talking about,
it still does not give us a very concrete operational way
of unearthing customer needs, wants, outcomes.
So that's where we are going with the next approach called
the linkages-driven approach to find gaps, unmet needs, in customers' lives.