
VISH KRISHNAN: The success of an innovative venture
depends on a number of factors.
The underlying technological seed is, of course, important.
But we also need to consider the markets that are being addressed
and the team that is taking this technology forward.
Consider 3D printing technology.
It can be applied in a number of markets.
Industrial manufacturing, construction, health care.
Some of these markets are more ready, more prepared than others.
Also, some of these markets may be a better fit
for the team in question given their backgrounds, their passions,
their advantages.
The scholars, Heslop, McGregor, and Griffith,
combined these success dimensions into what
they call the Cloverleaf framework.
This framework proposes that four major dimensions are required for a science
and technology venture success.
These are technology readiness, market readiness,
commercial readiness, and finally, management or team readiness.
Technology readiness is, of course, a starting point.
Technologies are the seeds.
And here we are looking for a mature, ready, prepared technology.
But it should also be a technology that has
significant strength, significant relative advantage over existing
substitutes.
Ideally, it would be a major breakthrough,
offering order of magnitude improvements in capability,
especially if this new technology hopes to displace
some fairly entrenched substitutes.
It would be a platform technology, but without dependence
on a lot of other complements.
In addition, it would be devoid of any safety or environmental risks,
and just would be more mature in the sense of being fully functional
and easily producible.
Next comes the market readiness.
Even when the technology itself may be ready in the sense of being patented
or patentable and it's unique, it may not
excite investors if it does not cater to a large and/or growing market.
Market readiness corresponds to a technology
which offers such highly significant, identifiable, quantifiable benefits,
resulting in a large and growing market due to its distinct advantages
over competing products.

A third related dimension is what's called commercial readiness, where
we are now examining if not only do we have a market,
but do we have access to a market and the ability to build a business.
Technology ventures are often built on the foundation
of an intellectual property or a patent that is backing the technology.
But does this intellectual property really
offer us the freedom to operate a business?
Just because a technology is built on a patent,
it does not mean that we automatically have the ability to operate a business.
A patent only gives us the right to block others
who could be infringing on this patent.
Other patent holders, especially preceding ones,
could have the ability to block us, the innovators,
from commercializing a patented technology.
So as innovators, we should study the patent closely.
And also consult with intellectual property lawyers, experts, to ensure we
have the freedom to operate.
In addition, even if there is a freedom to operate from a legal sense,
access to markets should not be blocked by other intermediaries.
A smooth path or route to market must be available to commercialize
this technology, or to license this technology to other intermediaries.
Distribution networks must also be available to take
our technology to market.
If all these conditions are satisfied, we
are supposed to have a more commercially ready technology,
and it might be possible for us to identify prospective licensees.
And it may also be possible for us to secure funding
from angel investors, early stage investors, or sources
like government labs or defense research labs that we should look at.
After technology readiness, market readiness, and commercial readiness,
we come to the fourth dimension called the management readiness
or the founding team's readiness.
Ideally, the founding team, the management team,
will have the experience, the expertise and the energy and excitement
to commercialize this invented technology.
They should also be able to work with inventors.
Many of these inventors are often quirky,
so we should also look at the inventing team to see if they're reasonable
and they're able to act as a team player with this team that
is seeking to commercialize.
As the cloverleaf framework offers us not just four dimensions, but also
a whole set of questions to ask, to answer, to determine and ascertain
the readiness of a technology venture.
We need to answer these questions, because translating or commercializing
an invention into beneficial products and ventures
is a complicated and long journey.
It is to some extent, like gardening.
Ultimately, the fruits and flowers of an innovation effort
are problem-solving, value-creating products, services and ventures.
And what we are trying to do in accelerating innovation,
is to really start with good seeds, a good environment,
and tackle the right problem.
The seeds for innovation are usually inventions produced by university
and government defense research labs.
Fundamental technological discoveries like GPS or 3D printing and gene
editing-like technologies.
To be successful, an innovative team should do the right due diligence
on the technology.
Its capability, its readiness, and the underlying market
characteristics, the ability or the freedom
to operate a business, the path or route to market,
and the overall fit with the team itself.
Checking the boxes on all these characteristics
can help us in this long journey from the lab to the market.
