Let's now consider business model decisions for established enterprises--
incumbents who are already present in a marketplace for whom going to market
is not such a major issue.
They already have well-developed channels, distribution partnerships.
What could be a problem for them?
It turns out their own legacy, their install base,
often tends to pose a problem.
How could that be?
Let's consider an example--
the case of Kodak in the photography market.
It wasn't that long ago that Kodak was an iconic company, a Dow 30 component,
which means a member of the Dow Jones Industrial Average,
and one of the major industrial successes.
Kodak itself was a startup that pioneered film photography
due to the genius of Eastman Kodak and its team.
They built a highly successful, highly profitable enterprise
that created enormous wealth and jobs, all based on film photography,
where film sales greatly enriched the company and its community.
At the turn of the century, this highly successful business
was confronted by a new technology--
digital photography-- that was starting to take root.
But what's surprising is to know that much
of the fundamental advances in digital photography actually happened at Kodak.
A young engineer that Kodak had hired back in the 1970s, Steve Sasson,
is credited with inventing digital photography
by making the first digital camera.
Story goes like this--
it was actually an accident because Mr. Sasson
was tasked with exploring new applications for another Kodak
invention at that time, the charge coupled device, or CCD,
which is actually a sensor that converts light patterns into electrical signals.
While doing this, the electrical pulses quickly dissipated,
so Steve resorted to digitization to store the image,
and the first digital camera was thus invented, in fact,
even before the first digital personal computers in the mid to late 1970s.
Many of the first digital camera patents were actually issued to Kodak.
But the digital camera breakthrough posed a dilemma
for Kodak and its executives.
If it were to actually take off, it could significantly crimp--
cannibalize-- Kodak's highly profitable film business.
Kodak's executives, like many others in such a situation,
convinced themselves that digital photography would never
take off due to some of its initial shortcomings,
such as poor quality and a display device that
was needed to view the image.
Eventually, the issues with digital photography
got worked out, quality improved, display systems emerged,
and it took off big-time.
Unfortunately, Kodak was not the beneficiary.
Other companies, such as Canon and Sony, actually
benefited from this new technology, while Kodak itself collapsed
due to the drop in its film business.
So launching breakthrough inventions that impact an existing business
is a major challenge for incumbents.
It's hard to let go of a highly profitable cash-cow business
such as the film business.
The organizational antibodies are ready to fight,
ready to kill these new breakthrough technologies that are coming out.
Kodak is not an isolated story.
There are numerous such examples at other companies.
Even Sony, that benefited in digital photography,
was the victim in other markets.
My own work with the company has shown that Sony had actually
come up with prototypes of the iPod, even before Apple came out
with its products.
But the ecosystem within Sony ended up killing these iPod prototypes
because it would cannibalize the very profitable Walkman business
and also negatively impact Sony's content businesses.
So the challenge for incumbents is to figure out
the organizational structure, the environment,
the climate that will advance such breakthroughs.
For enlightened companies, it may be possible to concurrently advance
both the existing and breakthrough technologies
and create a nice, wide product line that can span their entire market.
Wasn't it F. Scott Fitzgerald who said, "the test of a first-rate intelligence
is the ability to hold two opposing ideas in mind at the same time
and still retain the ability to function."
However, for most complex organizations, this
is still a challenge, dealing with breakthrough technologies that
cannibalize the established business.
Organizational alignment is hard to achieve.
So for such companies, it may actually be better
to spin off the breakthrough technology as a separate venture or business
while these breakthroughs can be nurtured and developed independently,
like a startup.