
RAMANA NANDA: So one of the things that we have seen, obviously,
in the last couple of decades is a dramatic rise in early-stage financing,
in part driven by the fact that it's become so much
cheaper to start companies.
And so while traditionally, venture capitalists
were the people who were making all the early-stage investments,
we now have entry of new intermediaries, accelerators, platforms like AngelList
and others that help entrepreneurs and angel investors get matched
to each other, and a wide variety of other, smaller venture
funds known as "seed funds" or "super angels," other fancy names.
But at the end of the day, they're all smaller funds
deploying smaller amounts of capital that
then help prove our company before the larger VCs give the companies money.
That's been great for early-stage experimentation in many ways,
because it's allowed lots of people to try out new ideas that they have,
and get funding for it.
But as we pointed out, and as we spoke about,
that growth and explosion of financing has been disproportionately benefiting
information technology, software services companies.
And it still is relatively harder to finance deep tech, and clean tech,
and other science-based industries.
I think the good news is that it has become cheaper to fund experiments
in many of these industries.
So for example, I'll give you an example.
In new space, it's possible to now build and launch
a satellite for under $1 million, which is just incredible--
a small, shoebox satellite.
These are called "cube sats."
It is possible now, with CRISPR technology, to do a lot of work
with gene sequencing, and gene editing, and to learn
about the potential of a drug that you couldn't
have done in maybe 10 years ago.
It would have cost a lot more to be able to do that.
With hardware, you have rapid prototyping
that enables you to do very, very quick sequences to understand that.
And even for something like nuclear technology--
there was a renaissance around nuclear power in the last several years,
where venture capitalists got involved in backing these companies.
And the reason, in part, was because it's possible
now to simulate the inside of a nuclear reactor with supercomputing,
so that you don't actually have to build the nuclear power
plant to test whether it works.
And it turns out that the biggest expense in the nuclear power plant
is actually the concrete that it takes.
It's like billions of dollars of concrete
to make sure that the reactor is safe.
And you don't need to do that.
You can do that for only a few hundred million dollars
by simulating the inside of a nuclear reactor.
So I think we have, in terms of orders of magnitude,
it's become just so much cheaper to experiment across the board.
Obviously in levels, it's still much cheaper
to do it for software and other information technology.
But as the cost of learning and starting new ventures
has fallen across the board, I'm very bullish about venture capital being
more and more able to finance industries that
were not able to be funded in the past.
That said, I think there's a lot to be done around ways, thinking about
particularly creative ways, of bringing family offices who
have an interest in a horizon that is longer, and perhaps a willingness
to fund projects that are important for society, that might not have
the same financial returns, to work creatively
to find structures that can help them deploy the capital that they need.
And there are efforts in place.
In Boston, there is great work being done by the Prime Coalition, which
is a group of family offices that are trying to work
on funding clean energy in particular.
And similarly, work around health care, trying
to find ways to get more capital going into those areas.
