
KARIM LAKHANI: Dr. Sam Kogan, thank you so
much for joining us today and participating in our module
as a guest lecturer.
You are the CEO and founder of Gen5 Group,
and you help advise lots of companies with their innovation processes.
So tell us a bit about yourself and what your company does.
SAM KOGAN: I'm glad to be here.
So my background: I'm a physicist and classical scientist, I would say.
My masters degree in material science and PhD in polymer science.
And for years, I was working, and then running R&D organizations
and big chemical companies.
My last achievement was developing a new process of making Teflon-type polymer.
But 20 years ago, I completely changed my life.
And since then, I've been in the field of innovation,
helping big companies and startups to develop and commercialize
new products and new technologies.
I've been lucky working with an exceptional group of scientists,
engineers that all use the same methodological approach to development
and commercializing products and technologies.
And the essence of our approach is a functional view on the world.
We look at the world as full of functions, rather than objects.
And this allows us to successfully work from potato chips to electronic chips
industries, from nuts and bolts problem to the big strategic problems.
KARIM LAKHANI: Fantastic.
So tell me a bit more about functional thinking, how it came about,
and how you discovered it in your own work.
SAM KOGAN: So functional thinking was formalized in the late '40s
by Larry Miles, who worked in the purchasing department of GE.
And he wanted to get the best deals for GE
when they were sourcing parts and materials.
So eventually, he developed a value engineering approach,
looking at the usefulness of the components of products and material
they were buying versus what it would cost them.
And it was great theory and that was used by a lot of economics, people
from purchasing, from financial, and so on.
And in late '60s and '70s, a group of thinkers,
and scientists, and engineers around the great Soviet inventor Genrich
Altshuller developed functional approach that they
used toward engineering system, as they call
it, technical systems and products.
And this functional approach allowed them
to create functional architecture of the problem and solve it differently.
I'll give you an example of simple wrong use of functions.
NASA, as they say, spent millions of dollars
in developing a new pen that will work in space when
there is no weight, right?
So normal pens would not work.
KARIM LAKHANI: Because, like, the microgravity--
SAM KOGAN: Yeah.
KARIM LAKHANI: The gravity doesn't exist in space--
SAM KOGAN: Yeah.
Yeah.
KARIM LAKHANI: --and the ink won't flow down.
SAM KOGAN: Yes.
So they spent millions of dollars in developing this.
And they created a new tool that it was called pencil.
If they started from the very beginning, said, what is the function of the pen?
It's not to move ink.
It's to leave the mark on a surface.
And there are other ways of doing that.
KARIM LAKHANI: So just on this example, they
were focused in on moving ink as what the pen did--
SAM KOGAN: Yeah.
KARIM LAKHANI: --instead of thinking of the function of the pen, which
is really to leave marks on surfaces.
SAM KOGAN: Absolutely.
They were focusing on objects, on components.
And functional thinking allows you to step back and look at the generally
how you describe this function.
And basically, functional approach, what attracted me to that,
and, once again, what allows us to really move from pet care
to aluminum wheels, from gas turbine to diapers, what allows this functional
view is Esperanto for engineers and scientists.
It's a universal language that would work with aluminum company that was
making aluminum wheels for big trucks.
It's a huge 18-feet wheel, and they needed to cool it.
And we brought a technology from the semiconductor industry
that where you cool microelements of the chip.
Why?
Because the function is the same.
Components are different, but function is the same.
I'm still kind of excited and have chills every time
when I'm thinking about that and try to identify, what is the function here?
What is the reason for this product or this component to exist?
